---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Multiple incidents: arrests, shooting, murder, Champions League, France"
ref: 2026-06-06-morning
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, morning]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/c649628c-5c3e-4ac4-a510-b7879d639b69/140x140_sc_000-b4y76j7.jpg"
description: >-
  Morning news digest for 2026-06-06. Death, Jérôme Barella, assault, Saint-Brieuc, shooting, Grenoble, injured, custody, PSG, Champions League, arrests, Grenoble and Chambéry, disturbances, Haute-Savoie, body wrapped, voluntary homicide, Isère, arson, Grenoble, two masked individuals, Drôme, Montélimar, car show, eco-friendly, Bassins, Japanese maples, bamboo groves, Acorus garden, Haute-Saône, Romans-sur-Isère, security, landscaping, Livradois-Forez, AGRIVAP, Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, Seixas, Paret-Peintre, Baudin, MMA, UFC, Donald Trump, birthday, overweight soldiers, SFR, acquisition, operators, agreement, PSG Market, Emmanuel Mbemba, Kylian Mbappé, 2022 World Cup, murder, Henry Nowak, JD Vance, Elon Musk, fueling divisions, United Kingdom.
date: 2026-06-06 04:00:04 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### Death of Lyanna: New complaint for assault filed in Saint-Brieuc against Jérôme Barella, the main suspect


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/c649628c-5c3e-4ac4-a510-b7879d639b69/140x140_sc_000-b4y76j7.jpg"
    alt="Death of Lyanna: New complaint for assault filed in Saint-Brieuc against Jérôme Barella, the main suspect"
    caption="Mort de Lyhanna : une nouvelle plainte pour viol déposée à Saint-Brieuc contre Jérôme Barella, le principal suspect" %}


Death of Lyanna: A new complaint for violation has been filed in Saint-Brieuc against Jérôme Barella, the main suspect in the death of the 11-year-old student in 2023. A new complaint was filed on Thursday in Saint-Brieuc (Côtes-d'Armor), according to information from a source close to the case. These acts of violation date back to 2023.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/bretagne/cotes-d-armor-22/saint-brieuc/mort-de-lyhanna-une-nouvelle-plainte-pour-viol-deposee-a-saint-brieuc-contre-jerome-barella-le-principal-suspect-5555098?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Two minors placed in custody after the shooting that resulted in one death and four injuries in Grenoble.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/BYJBFVPCWVOd6Fju2eeOtOERBMU/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/31/6a1c63f85e746284444386.jpg"
    alt="Two minors placed in custody after the shooting that resulted in one death and four injuries in Grenoble."
    caption="Deux mineurs placés en garde à vue après la fusillade ayant fait un mort et quatre blessés à Grenoble" %}


On March 15, a shooting occurred in the Mistral district of Grenoble, resulting in the death of one person and the injury of four others. Two minors have been placed under custody in connection with this incident. Authorities are investigating the circumstances of this event.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/deux-mineurs-places-en-garde-a-vue-apres-la-fusillade-ayant-fait-un-mort-et-quatre-blesses-a-grenoble-3360304.html)*


### PSG victory in the Champions League: stores looted, mortar fire… Several arrests in Grenoble and Chambéry, riots in Haute-Savoie.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/_EwioE1s6t1VVfC19IsVCDt7Sv8/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/31/6a1be0768b75e211697516.jpg"
    alt="PSG victory in the Champions League: stores looted, mortar fire… Several arrests in Grenoble and Chambéry, riots in Haute-Savoie."
    caption="Victoire du PSG en Ligue des champions : magasins pillés, tirs de mortier… Plusieurs interpellations à Grenoble et Chambéry, débordements en Haute-Savoie" %}


Victory of Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) in the Champions League: riots, looting of shops, and mortar fire in Grenoble and Chambéry, and unrest in the Haute-Savoie region. Five people were arrested in Grenoble on Saturday evening after the celebrations following PSG's victory. Shop windows were broken, and police officers were targeted by mortar fire. The riots also caused unrest in Chambéry and the Haute-Savoie region. Authorities are investigating the events.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/victoire-du-psg-en-ligue-des-champions-magasins-pilles-tirs-de-mortier-plusieurs-interpellations-apres-une-nuit-de-debordements-a-grenoble-3360007.html)*


### Body wrapped in a sheet found by a stream in Isère: an investigation has been opened for 'intentional homicide'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/8jqcvsIZxeb59wQkckwc9mA8HFQ/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/05/6a229eac5911b462083670.jpg"
    alt="Body wrapped in a sheet found by a stream in Isère: an investigation has been opened for 'intentional homicide'"
    caption="Corps enroulé dans un drap retrouvé au bord d'un ruisseau en Isère : une information judiciaire ouverte pour 'homicide volontaire'" %}


A corpse covered with a sheet was found along a river in the Isère, leading to a criminal investigation into voluntary murder and arson followed by destruction. The Grenoble prosecutor's office opened this investigation last Friday. The autopsy performed this week confirmed death by firearm.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/corps-enroule-dans-un-drap-retrouve-au-bord-d-un-ruisseau-en-isere-une-information-judiciaire-ouverte-pour-homicide-volontaire-3363295.html)*


### A hair salon completely destroyed by a criminal fire in the city center of Grenoble: 'Two masked individuals' were seen at the scene.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/mVOe5DTDbSZ6dnnlsOw0_KZubA0/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/03/6a1fd806e5cf6899535540.jpg"
    alt="A hair salon completely destroyed by a criminal fire in the city center of Grenoble: 'Two masked individuals' were seen at the scene."
    caption="Un salon de coiffure entièrement détruit par un incendie criminel dans le centre-ville de Grenoble : 'Deux individus encagoulés' vus sur les lieux" %}


The hair salon located on Condorcet Street in Grenoble was completely destroyed by a criminal fire on June 2nd at midnight. The fire occurred after an explosion. Two masked individuals were observed on the scene by a witness. Eleven people were evacuated and provided temporary housing by emergency services. Investigations are underway to determine the cause of the fire and identify the two individuals suspected.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/un-salon-de-coiffure-entierement-detruit-par-un-incendie-criminel-dans-le-centre-ville-de-grenoble-deux-individus-encagoules-vus-sur-les-lieux-3361762.html)*



## Drôme


### Drôme. The Montélimar car show goes green for its 28th edition.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/357B6DE7-47CF-448C-B676-B85D951D95EC/NW_listB/le-salon-de-l-auto-de-montelimar-en-mode-ecolo-pour-sa-28e-edition-1780684598.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. The Montélimar car show goes green for its 28th edition."
    caption="Drôme. Le salon de l’auto de Montélimar en mode écolo pour sa 28e édition" %}


The Montélimar Auto Show celebrated its 28th edition from June 5th to 7th, 2023, with a focus on ecology. Organized by Ideal design, this event brought together 11 dealerships presenting 28 eco-friendly brands in Drôme. The show extended throughout the weekend, offering visitors the opportunity to explore the latest technological advancements in sustainable automotive. Exhibitors showcased electric, hybrid, and low-emission vehicles, as well as innovations related to sustainable mobility. The Montélimar Auto Show also offered conferences and discussions on the current issues facing the automotive and environmental industries.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/culture-loisirs/2026/06/05/le-salon-de-l-auto-en-mode-ecolo-pour-sa-28-sup-e-sup-edition)*


### VIDEO - Ponds, Japanese maples, bamboo groves: The Acorus garden, a timeless place to visit in Haute-Saône.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/cc888fa9-4cc1-4fd6-baff-343c290a5fa0/464x261_sc_ecm-jardin-acorus-autoreille-00-00-25-12.jpg"
    alt="VIDEO - Ponds, Japanese maples, bamboo groves: The Acorus garden, a timeless place to visit in Haute-Saône."
    caption="VIDÉO - Bassins, érables du Japon, bambouseraies : le jardin Acorus, un lieu hors du temps à visiter en Haute-Saône" %}


The Acorus garden, located in Haute-Saône in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region, offers a Japanese-inspired experience without having to leave France. This aquatic garden, which has been awarded the "Remarkable Garden" label, is a unique space with over 1800 varieties of plants, including ponds, Japanese maples, and bamboo groves. Japanese inspiration is everywhere in this place, which also includes a nature reserve for protected birds (LPO). If you are looking to escape from everyday life and discover a unique garden, the Acorus garden is definitely a place to visit.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/bourgogne-franche-comte/haute-saone-70/autoreille/video-bassins-erables-du-japon-bambouseraies-le-jardin-acorus-un-lieu-hors-du-temps-a-visiter-en-haute-saone-9571945?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=24)*


### Romans-sur-Isère. The City is organizing public meetings on security and urban planning.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/8EA38B00-84F5-4E63-A14B-EB8BC676F1CC/NW_listB/la-ville-organise-des-reunions-publiques-autour-de-la-securite-et-de-l-amenagement-1780682446.jpg"
    alt="Romans-sur-Isère. The City is organizing public meetings on security and urban planning."
    caption="Romans-sur-Isère. La Ville organise des réunions publiques autour de la sécurité et de l’aménagement" %}


Romans-sur-Isère is organizing public meetings on safety and public space development over the next two months. The city wants to engage in a conversation with its residents to discuss these important topics. The meetings will be organized by the town hall of Romans-sur-Isère, giving citizens the opportunity to share their ideas and participate in decision-making on issues such as public safety and urban planning. Details on the locations, dates, and times will be announced soon by the town hall.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/politique/2026/06/05/la-ville-organise-des-reunions-publiques-autour-de-la-securite-et-de-l-amenagement)*


### 'The Tour of Possibilities takes the train in Livradois-Forez with AGRIVAP!'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/691f5975-ecb7-417d-9efe-974850cdf6d1/464x261_sc_img-20260531-wa0003.jpg"
    alt="'The Tour of Possibilities takes the train in Livradois-Forez with AGRIVAP!'"
    caption="Le tour des possibles prend le train en Livradois-Forez avec AGRIVAP !" %}


The Tour des Possibles takes place in the Livradois-Forez thanks to AGRIVAP. For over 40 years, this association has operated its tourist trains in the Livradois-Forez region. We had the opportunity to speak with Jean-Michel DEBLY, president of the association.

AGRIVAP is an association established in 1978 under 1901 law, to promote railway tourism in the Livradois-Forez region. The association currently operates three tourist trains: Le Train des Pignats, Le Train des Monts Dore, and Le Train de l'Aubrac.

The Tour des Possibles is an annual event that allows visitors to discover the Livradois-Forez region by traveling on the tourist trains of AGRIVAP. The event takes place over several days and offers various activities such as guided tours, exhibitions, concerts, and children's entertainment.

Jean-Michel DEBLY has been the president of the association since 2015. He joined AGRIVAP in 1984 and held various positions within the association before being elected president. His goal is to continue to promote railway tourism in the Livradois-Forez region and to develop the association's activities.

The Tour des Possibles event takes place every year in June and attracts thousands of visitors who come to discover the Livradois-Forez region on the tourist trains of AGRIVAP. The association also works with other tourism actors in the region to promote sustainable development and ecotourism.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/emissions/le-tour-des-possibles/le-tour-des-possibles-prend-le-train-en-livradois-forez-avec-agrivap-5397132?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=24)*


### Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. Seixas, Paret-Peintre, Baudin... All the local riders starting


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/CB57EDEC-0265-4CE6-8D74-27330FDBA2F4/NW_listB/seixas-paret-peintre-baudin-tous-les-coureurs-regionaux-au-depart-1780487743.jpg"
    alt="Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. Seixas, Paret-Peintre, Baudin... All the local riders starting"
    caption="Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes. Seixas, Paret-Peintre, Baudin... Tous les coureurs régionaux au départ" %}


The Tour of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes, formerly known as the Critérium du Dauphiné, will take place from Sunday, June 7th to June 14th in 2026. This regional cycling competition brings together riders from all departments of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region, including Seixas, Paret-Peintre, and Baudin. Details about their participation in this 2026 edition will be announced later.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/sport/2026/06/06/seixas-paret-peintre-baudin-tous-les-coureurs-regionaux-au-depart)*



## Île-de-France


### MMA: 'No overweight soldiers' invited to the White House for Donald Trump's birthday


The Mixed Martial Arts (MMA) organization, known as the UFC, invited overweight military combatants to a meeting at the White House in honor of US President Donald Trump's birthday. This initiative is intended to highlight the efforts of soldiers and promote mixed martial arts. However, it has been noted that only military combatants who are in good physical condition were invited to this meeting.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/mma/mma-pas-de-soldats-en-surpoids-invites-pour-lufc-a-la-maison-blanche-pour-lanniversaire-de-donald-trump-05-06-2026-35NM3B6PRBABPFAJX5JH63VV24.php)*


### Acquisition of SFR: the four operators have until Sunday to 'finalize' an agreement.


The four major French telecommunications operators have until next Sunday to finalize an agreement on the acquisition of SFR by Bouygues Telecom, Free, or Altice. If the agreement is reached, it would be the largest consolidation of mobile operators in France since the creation of Orange and SFR in 2004.

The acquisition of SFR by Bouygues Telecom would have a significant impact on the French telecommunications market, with a reduction in the number of major operators to three. The agreement could also have consequences for competition and the prices of mobile, internet, and television services.

Free has already indicated that it is willing to negotiate an agreement with Bouygues Telecom, but the company has also stated that its offer could be higher than that of Altice. However, Altice has stated that it has the necessary financial support to acquire SFR and that its proposal is the most attractive for the shareholders of Numericable-SFR.

The acquisition of SFR by Bouygues Telecom or another operator could also have implications for the European telecommunications industry, with a possible consolidation of the market and a reduction in the number of major operators.

Negotiations between the four operators are still ongoing, and it is difficult to predict whether an agreement will be reached before next Sunday. The parties have stated that they are optimistic about the possibility of an agreement, but no final decision has yet been made.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/economie/rachat-de-sfr-les-quatre-operateurs-se-donnent-jusqua-dimanche-pour-finaliser-un-accord-05-06-2026-KSSGZBG4EVDNLHGDFWMEJMN534.php)*


### PSG Market: Arsenal is actively pursuing Parisian defender Emmanuel Mbemba.


The English club, Arsenal, is actively trying to recruit defender Emmanuel Mbemba, who currently plays for Paris Saint-Germain (PSG). According to sources, Arsenal has offered a transfer fee of 20 million euros for the Congolese player. Mbemba joined PSG in 2017 and has played 34 matches for the first team. He is currently on loan at FC Porto, where he has scored two goals in 15 appearances. Arsenal is looking to strengthen its defensive squad for the next season, and Mbemba could be a good option to replace defender Laurent Koscielny, who left the club this year. The transfer has not yet been finalized, and negotiations are ongoing between Arsenal and PSG.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/football/ligue-1/mercato-psg-arsenal-sactive-sur-le-defenseur-parisien-emmanuel-mbemba-05-06-2026-SJJZQTNCCVFOJPLXQF37Z7TEM4.php)*


### 'This could bring back old demons': Kylian Mbappé has never revisited the 2022 World Cup final.


The French football player Kylian Mbappé did not attend the 2022 World Cup final, which took place on December 18, 2022 between Argentina and France. This absence was due to the fact that he was replaced by Olivier Giroud in the French team during the second half of the semi-final against Morocco, which ended in a 2-0 defeat. Mbappé had scored both goals in France's victory over Portugal in the quarter-final and was considered one of the key players on the team. His non-participation in the final sparked some controversy, with some critics arguing that his presence could have changed the outcome of the match.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/football/coupe-du-monde/ca-risque-de-reveiller-de-vieux-demons-kylian-mbappe-na-jamais-revu-la-finale-de-la-coupe-du-monde-2022-05-06-2026-ZUOPTW7NBFAAZENLQPCVD4UFHM.php)*


### Murder of Henry Nowak: JD Vance and Elon Musk accused of 'inciting division' in the UK


The murder of Henry Nowak sparked a heated controversy in Britain, with accusations leveled against JD Vance and Elon Musk for contributing to "fanning the flames of division."

Henry Nowak, a 23-year-old man, was killed in the county of Kent in England. The circumstances of his death remained unclear, but it was known that Nowak had connections with far-right groups and had been investigated for making terrorist threats.

JD Vance, an American writer, published an article criticizing the UK's migration policies and comparing migrants to "invaders." Elon Musk, meanwhile, shared a video on Twitter showing groups of migrants crossing the border between Mexico and the United States.

The accusations against Vance and Musk were made by members of the British Parliament, who claimed that these statements had contributed to creating an atmosphere of hatred and intolerance towards migrants. The two men were invited to appear before Parliament, but they refused.

The British government also condemned these statements, with Prime Minister Boris Johnson stating that "everything that can be done to calm the tensions must be done."

The case has sparked a strong reaction in the press and on social media, with calls to boycott Tesla products, the company of Elon Musk.

In summary, the murder of Henry Nowak has led to a controversy in Britain, with accusations leveled against JD Vance and Elon Musk for contributing to "fanning the flames of division." The two men were invited to appear before Parliament, but they refused. The British government has condemned these statements, with calls to boycott Tesla products.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/faits-divers/meurtre-dhenry-nowak-jd-vance-et-elon-musk-accuses-d-attiser-les-divisions-au-royaume-uni-05-06-2026-TPXFDFBJ6BEHLI6GQLQUDVPRKM.php)*


