---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Lyanna missing, suspect in assault, Gers detained."
ref: 2026-06-02-morning
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, morning]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/8d86671c-be99-4d4c-9103-3e67f45d8bda/140x140_sc_000-b4kp4fz.jpg"
description: >-
  Morning news digest for 2026-06-02. Suspect, provisional detention, assault, disappearance, Lyanna, Gers
date: 2026-06-02 09:00:05 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### Suspect in pre-trial detention, assaulted, search underway... : what we know about the disappearance of Lyanna in the Gers


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/8d86671c-be99-4d4c-9103-3e67f45d8bda/140x140_sc_000-b4kp4fz.jpg"
    alt="Suspect in pre-trial detention, assaulted, search underway... : what we know about the disappearance of Lyanna in the Gers"
    caption="Suspect en détention provisoire, battue, recherches... : ce que l'on sait de la disparition de Lyhanna dans le Gers" %}


11-year-old Lyanna, a middle school student, disappeared in Fleurance (Gers) on Friday afternoon. A suspect was questioned and placed under provisional detention the following Monday. A search was organized on Sunday to locate the girl, and gendarmes are currently continuing the search for Lyanna.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/occitanie/gers-32/fleurance/disparition-de-lyhanna-dans-le-gers-un-suspect-mis-en-examen-une-enquete-ouverte-poursuite-des-recherches-6105985?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Montbard celebrates: exceptional cars, local market, and free concert at the Rallye de l'Auxois


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/cd1705f2-0a50-4841-b2d2-86b3ada514e2/464x261_sc_img-3019.jpg"
    alt="Montbard celebrates: exceptional cars, local market, and free concert at the Rallye de l'Auxois"
    caption="Montbard en fête : voitures d’exception, marché local et concert gratuit au Rallye de l'Auxois" %}


On June 20 and 21, 2026, the town of Montbard will host the Auto Meeting and the 3rd Rallye de l'Auxois. This automotive event will feature exceptional cars, and participants will also be able to participate in the local market. A free concert will be organized in conjunction with these events. This provides a unique opportunity for car and music lovers to come together.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/bourgogne-franche-comte/cote-d-or-21/montbard/montbard-en-fete-voitures-d-exception-marche-local-et-concert-gratuit-au-rallye-de-l-auxois-6924522?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes 2026: route, schedule, difficulty... Step by step, discover the new format of the former Critérium du Dauphiné.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/CF34m2Bd2g9JepNFjjdg0SPdqmo/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/01/6a1d5afa9d90e767526447.jpg"
    alt="Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes 2026: route, schedule, difficulty... Step by step, discover the new format of the former Critérium du Dauphiné."
    caption="Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes 2026 : parcours, horaires, difficultés... Étape par étape, découvrez le nouveau format de l'ex-Critérium du Dauphiné" %}


The Tour Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes 2026, formerly known as the Critérium du Dauphiné, will take place from June 7 to 14. The race starts in Vizille, in the Isère. Over eight days of competition, the riders will ride the roads and mountains of the region. Here is a step-by-step summary of the route:

June 1: Stage 1 - Vizille (Isère) to Bourg-d'Oisans (Isère) - 168.5 km
June 2: Stage 2 - Saint-Étienne (Loire) to Saint-Étienne (Loire) - 13.7 km (individual time trial)
June 3: Stage 3 - Saint-Étienne (Loire) to Saint-Chamond (Loire) - 168.5 km
June 4: Stage 4 - Saint-Chamond (Loire) to Saint-Étienne (Loire) - 17.2 km (team time trial)
June 5: Rest day
June 6: Stage 5 - Bourg-en-Bresse (Ain) to Oyonnax (Ain) - 180.5 km
June 7: Stage 6 - Oyonnax (Ain) to Grand-Bornand (Haute-Savoie) - 149.5 km
June 8: Stage 7 - Grand-Bornand (Haute-Savoie) to Le Grand-Bourget (Haute-Savoie) - 163.5 km
June 9: Stage 8 - Albertville (Savoie) to Valmorel (Savoie) - 142.5 km
June 10: Stage 9 - Valmorel (Savoie) to Méribel (Savoie) - 137.5 km
June 11: Stage 10 - Méribel (Savoie) to Courchevel (Savoie) - 126.5 km
June 12: Stage 11 - Courchevel (Savoie) to Saint-Étienne (Loire) - 178.5 km
June 13: Stage 12 - Saint-Étienne (Loire) to Saint-Étienne (Loire) - 140.5 km (individual time trial)
June 14: Stage 13 - Saint-Étienne (Loire) to Saint-Étienne (Loire) - 126.5 km

The riders will face a variety of challenges, including mountains such as the Col de Porte and the Col du Grand Colombier. The precise times for each stage will be published later.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/tour-auvergne-rhone-alpes-2026-parcours-horaires-difficultes-etape-par-etape-decouvrez-le-nouveau-format-de-l-ex-criterium-du-dauphine-3360568.html)*


### The Saint-Ghislain Festival in Givet


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/06/9ac3b2ec-7842-45d5-a746-f5203061f8c5/464x261_sc_visuel-effet-flou.jpg"
    alt="The Saint-Ghislain Festival in Givet"
    caption="Le Festival de Saint-Ghislain à Givet" %}


The Saint-Ghislain International Folklore Festival is taking place this year in Givet, France. This Belgian cultural event, known for its diversity and energy, will feature a folk performance at the Givet Manege. This edition is particularly special because it allows French spectators to watch traditional Belgian performances without having to travel to Belgium. The participating artists come from various regions of Belgium and will offer a variety of traditional dances, music, and costumes. This cross-border cultural collaboration is a unique event that strengthens the ties between Belgium and France.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/grand-est/ardennes-08/givet/le-festival-de-saint-ghislain-a-givet-7054102?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### A body wrapped in a sheet found by a stream in Isère: an investigation has been opened for 'voluntary homicide'.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/f-f3Oo_MG1DIHAMx_1vag3uh9S8/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/01/6a1d600ace05e249927726.jpg"
    alt="A body wrapped in a sheet found by a stream in Isère: an investigation has been opened for 'voluntary homicide'."
    caption="Un corps enroulé dans un drap retrouvé au bord d'un ruisseau en Isère : une enquête ouverte pour 'homicide volontaire'" %}


A corpse wrapped in a sheet was found on Saturday, May 30th, near a stream in Estrablin (Isère). An investigation has been opened for voluntary homicide. The victim, aged approximately 40, has a gunshot wound, according to the public prosecutor's office in Vienne.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/un-corps-enroule-dans-un-drap-retrouve-au-bord-d-un-ruisseau-en-isere-une-enquete-ouverte-pour-homicide-volontaire-3360631.html)*



## Drôme


### Valence. Laptops, cannabis, and perfume delivered by drone to prison: an arrest.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/4F8D913C-0483-4280-976D-AB32ED877581/NW_listB/des-portables-du-cannabis-et-du-parfum-livres-par-drone-dans-la-prison-une-interpellation-1780387975.jpg"
    alt="Valence. Laptops, cannabis, and perfume delivered by drone to prison: an arrest."
    caption="Valence. Des portables, du cannabis et du parfum livrés par drone dans la prison : une interpellation" %}


On June 1st, in Valencia, a person was arrested on suspicion of having organized the illegal delivery of three packages containing mobile phones, cannabis, and perfume to a prison. The operation took place around 0:30 AM on Sunday, May 31st. Authorities used a drone to make the delivery inside the prison.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/06/02/des-portables-du-cannabis-et-du-parfum-livres-par-drone-dans-la-prison-une-interpellation)*


### Pierrelatte. Section 215 of ASSE supporters: fewer trips, but an undiminished passion for the Green Army


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/A860E4C5-A7EC-46F0-AEC2-8BEA9C5FFA01/NW_listB/section-215-des-supporters-de-l-asse-des-deplacements-plus-rares-mais-une-passion-intacte-pour-les-verts-1780334325.jpg"
    alt="Pierrelatte. Section 215 of ASSE supporters: fewer trips, but an undiminished passion for the Green Army"
    caption="Pierrelatte. Section 215 des supporters de l’ASSE : des déplacements plus rares, mais une passion intacte pour les Verts" %}


Pierrelatte: The section 215 of ASSE (Association Sportive de l'Ardèche) supporters has experienced fewer trips this season, but their passion for the "Verts" remains intact. Disappointed by the lack of success of ASSE at the door of Ligue 1, the Pierrelatte supporters evaluated the season at a general meeting and remain hopeful for a return to the top division next season.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/societe/2026/06/01/section-215-des-supporters-de-l-asse-des-deplacements-plus-rares-mais-une-passion-intacte-pour-les-verts)*


### 'It will forever be etched in our hearts': Franck and Alain, supporters of ASSE, recount their journey to Glasgow for the 1976 ASSE-Bayern Munich final.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/L2T1Td3zYYYbJXwNSFIbHmipylY/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/09/69ff36569eb17569335065.jpg"
    alt="'It will forever be etched in our hearts': Franck and Alain, supporters of ASSE, recount their journey to Glasgow for the 1976 ASSE-Bayern Munich final."
    caption="'Ça restera gravé à jamais dans nos cœurs' : Franck et Alain, supporteurs des Verts, racontent leurs déplacements à Glasgow pour la finale ASSE-Bayern Munich de 1976." %}


Fifty years ago, the Saint-Étienne team lost the European Cup final to Bayern Munich in Glasgow. For the green-clad supporters, Franck and Alain, this defeat remains etched in their hearts. On May 12, 1976, they witnessed the match in Scotland. They remember the electric atmosphere, marked by the "curse" of the square posts, the "green fever," and the "madness." The supporters experienced an intense moment, marked by the spirit of camaraderie and mutual support. They also remember the atmosphere in Glasgow, the joy of the opposing supporters, and the pain of defeat. This match remains an important moment in their sporting lives and has contributed to forging a community of passionate supporters.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/loire/saint-etienne/ca-restera-grave-a-jamais-dans-nos-c-urs-franck-et-alain-supporteurs-des-verts-racontent-leurs-deplacements-a-glasgow-pour-la-finale-asse-bayern-munich-de-1976-3348130.html)*


### Romans-sur-Isère. Local police officer injured: intoxicated, under the influence of drugs, and wearing an electronic ankle monitor, the driver fell asleep in prison.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/EB9802EB-1BA8-4A2D-B32B-BFF6F8CA4ED6/NW_listB/policiere-municipale-percutee-alcoolise-sous-stupefiants-et-sous-bracelet-electronique-le-chauffard-dort-en-prison-1780307833.jpg"
    alt="Romans-sur-Isère. Local police officer injured: intoxicated, under the influence of drugs, and wearing an electronic ankle monitor, the driver fell asleep in prison."
    caption="Romans-sur-Isère. Policière municipale percutée : alcoolisé, sous stupéfiants et sous bracelet électronique, le chauffard dort en prison" %}


The 29-year-old man, suspected of hitting a municipal police officer in Romans-sur-Isère on May 28th, was brought before the Valence court in an immediate appearance. The defendant was under the influence of alcohol and drugs and was wearing an electronic bracelet. He is currently in custody.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/06/01/policiere-municipale-percutee-alcoolise-sous-stupefiants-et-sous-bracelet-electronique-le-chauffard-dort-en-prison)*


### Drôme. Wine and painting, relaxation with sound... These two sisters dream of opening a place dedicated to women's well-being.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/2B831B3B-6DB4-4EBF-978A-F5BA2BDD00EC/NW_listB/apero-peinture-relaxation-sonore-ces-deux-cousines-revent-d-ouvrir-un-lieu-dedie-a-l-epanouissement-des-femmes-1780336474.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Wine and painting, relaxation with sound... These two sisters dream of opening a place dedicated to women's well-being."
    caption="Drôme. Apéro peinture, relaxation sonore... Ces deux cousines rêvent d’ouvrir un lieu dédié à l’épanouissement des femmes" %}


The "Maison Liame" project is an initiative launched by two cousins in Valence, in the Drôme department. They are both coaches in personal development and massage therapists. The aim of this project is to create a space dedicated to the well-being of women, offering activities such as painting evenings or sound relaxation sessions. Their goal is to foster connections between women and to provide them with care. They have already organized events in collaboration with other entrepreneurs in the area.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/societe/2026/06/01/apero-peinture-relaxation-sonore-ces-deux-cousines-revent-d-ouvrir-un-lieu-dedie-a-l-epanouissement-des-femmes)*



## Île-de-France


### Aggressive driving, finger-pointing… The driver's behavior had been reported before the school bus accident in Belgium.


School bus accident in Belgium: the driver's conduct is being questioned after it was reported that his aggressive behavior included offensive gestures, such as giving the middle finger. Authorities have launched an investigation to determine whether these actions contributed to the accident that resulted in multiple deaths and injuries.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/faits-divers/agressivite-au-volant-doigt-dhonneur-la-conduite-du-chauffeur-avait-ete-signalee-avant-laccident-du-car-scolaire-en-belgique-02-06-2026-CDMCBQM43FCSTNT3SPT2AVQCOM.php)*


### In the midst of a renaissance, the medieval Norman fortress of Châteauneuf-sur-Epte hopes to strike it rich thanks to you.


In a period of renewal, the medieval Norman fortress of Châteauneuf-sur-Epte is seeking to win the grand prize thanks to your participation. Located on the Epte River, this historic fortress offers a journey back in time to the medieval era. It is known for its imposing architecture and well-maintained gardens. With cultural events and guided tours, it offers an immersive experience for visitors interested in history. In addition, the fortress is also a charming hotel, offering visitors a unique experience by staying in historic rooms. With its idyllic location and cultural attractions, Châteauneuf-sur-Epte is a must-see destination for those who want to discover the medieval Normandy.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/eure-27/en-pleine-renaissance-la-forteresse-medievale-normande-de-chateauneuf-sur-epte-espere-decrocher-le-jackpot-grace-a-vous-02-06-2026-JS5DBN7VPRHFRI6RRWO24EMKZ4.php)*


### Found: a body in a state of decomposition near the Ollioules-Sanary-sur-Mer train station, an investigation has been opened.


The body of an individual was found in a state of decomposition near the Ollioules-Sanary-sur-Mer train station in France. An investigation is currently underway to identify the person and determine the circumstances of their death. Local authorities have asked citizens to remain vigilant and not touch the body until experts arrive.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/faits-divers/var-un-corps-en-etat-de-decomposition-decouvert-pres-de-la-gare-dollioules-sanary-sur-mer-une-enquete-ouverte-02-06-2026-SFFR3E44EZF3RCZ6D4X4SXXZJY.php)*


### 'I never refuse to sign one': why the big yellow ball is falling apart at Roland-Garros


Title: "I Never Refuse to Sign One": Why the Big Yellow Ball is a Roland-Garros Tradition

The article discusses the recurring phenomenon of losing yellow balls, used for deciding points in tennis, during Roland-Garros tournaments. It explains that players never refuse to sign such a ball, even if it has been lost on their serve, because it represents a valuable memory for fans.

The article also reports that the tradition of signing yellow balls dates back to the era of Björn Borg, and it explains that today, each player receives a box of 12 yellow balls for each match.

Finally, the article mentions that the loss of yellow balls can have consequences on the results of matches, as some balls may be heavier or lighter than others, which can affect the players' game. It also explains that there are rumors that some players have deliberately lost yellow balls to gain extra points or to gain time.

In conclusion, the article discusses the tradition of signing yellow balls during tennis tournaments and the recurring loss of these balls during Roland-Garros matches. It explains that players never refuse to sign such a ball, even if it has been lost on their serve, because it represents a valuable memory for fans. The article also mentions that the loss of yellow balls can have consequences on the results of matches and that there are rumors that some players have deliberately lost yellow balls to gain extra points or to gain time.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/tennis/roland-garros/je-ne-refuse-jamais-den-signer-une-pourquoi-la-grosse-balle-jaune-sarrache-a-roland-garros-02-06-2026-BPOJCTYXXJA75F7USOW5GMZ57A.php)*


### 2027 Presidential Election: Raphaël Glucksmann says he is confident he will 'defeat' Jean-Luc Mélenchon


2027 Presidential Elections: Raphaël Glucksmann says he is confident in defeating Jean-Luc Mélenchon. The Green candidate stated that his political program, focused on ecology and social justice, would allow him to gather the votes of the left and win the election. He also emphasized his ability to effectively communicate with the public and offer concrete solutions to social and environmental problems. Mélenchon, on the other hand, has been considered one of the favorites of the French left for several years. He has already participated in two presidential elections (in 2012 and 2017) and has achieved good results, notably in 2017 where he finished third with nearly 20% of the votes. Glucksmann also emphasized that his program is more modern and adapted to current issues than Mélenchon's, which would be considered too radical by some voters. It remains to be seen whether Glucksmann will be able to fulfill his promise and defeat Mélenchon in the next presidential elections.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/elections/presidentielle/presidentielle-2027-raphael-glucksmann-se-dit-certain-quil-pliera-jean-luc-melenchon-02-06-2026-ZUK677C5FJAX7PGPZBLTURYQ44.php)*


