---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Heatwave impacts France, global health concerns rise"
ref: 2026-05-25-evening
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, evening]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/48da1912-6827-42ec-9eab-d5e9048eab39/464x261_sc_fetsivalpaysages.jpg"
description: >-
  Evening news digest for 2026-05-25. Festival Paysages Alsace Bossue, Guy Savoy, Academy of Fine Arts, vandalized Liberty Tree, Mayor of Antraigues, scandal involving Mayor of Vienne, LFI activists deface statue, New Zealand fights cancer, 30 degrees in Ardèche, Drôme, and Vaucluse, Drôme raid displaces man threatening with grenade, Drôme rave party court proceedings, Muslim school in Valence, Abraham Accords with Trump and the Gulf, sports, heat, health, risks, heatwave, orange alert for departments, Ukraine war, B1 Centauro sets record, deadly swimming in heat, annual drowning statistics, explanations from doctors regarding heat, sports, and health.
date: 2026-05-25 15:00:04 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### The 19th Landscape Festival, June 2-14, 2026, in the Alsace Bossue region, an invitation to look up.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/48da1912-6827-42ec-9eab-d5e9048eab39/464x261_sc_fetsivalpaysages.jpg"
    alt="The 19th Landscape Festival, June 2-14, 2026, in the Alsace Bossue region, an invitation to look up."
    caption="Le 19è Festival des Paysages du 2 au 14 juin 2026 en Alsace Bossue, une invitation à prendre de la hauteur." %}


The 19th Landscape Festival will take place from June 2 to 14, 2026, in the Alsace Bossue region. The event will offer a variety of concerts, performances, screenings, debates, workshops, readings, and festive activities designed for all ages. The new edition will have the theme "taking to the heights", offering a unique perspective on art, culture, and nature in this historic region. Visitors will be able to enjoy a rich and diverse program, with activities for all tastes and interests. The Landscape Festival is a unique opportunity to discover the Alsace Bossue during the summer season, and to share a moment of conviviality and creativity with other art and culture enthusiasts.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/grand-est/alsace-cea/lorentzen/le-19e-festival-des-paysages-du-2-au-14-juin-2026-en-alsace-bossue-une-invitation-a-prendre-de-la-hauteur-4833215?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### A 'Pantagruel-esque honor': the Michelin-starred chef Guy Savoy, the first chef to join the Académie des Beaux-Arts


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/Xg3_ySl90ku9CwvdE26wzE-2PHc/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/21/6a0ea8834db23902031159.jpg"
    alt="A 'Pantagruel-esque honor': the Michelin-starred chef Guy Savoy, the first chef to join the Académie des Beaux-Arts"
    caption="Un 'pantagruélique honneur' : le chef étoilé Guy Savoy, premier cuisinier à entrer à l'Académie des beaux-arts" %}


The renowned chef Guy Savoy, a prominent figure in French gastronomy, was officially inducted into the Académie des Beaux-Arts on Wednesday, marking a first for French cuisine within this prestigious institution. Born in Bourgoin-Jallieu, Isère, Savoy has demonstrated his passion for the arts and literature throughout his career. With his induction into the Académie des Beaux-Arts, he becomes the first representative of French cuisine to join this prestigious institution.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/bourgoin-jallieu/un-pantagruelique-honneur-le-chef-etoile-guy-savoy-premier-cuisinier-a-entrer-a-l-academie-des-beaux-arts-3354433.html)*


### The 'tree of liberty' vandalized in Antraigues (Ardèche): 'stupidity destroys a symbol,' laments the mayor.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/7ff93ebd-dad4-405e-a3fc-2f7ac70c113d/464x261_sc_pibou-vandalise-a-antraigues.jpg"
    alt="The 'tree of liberty' vandalized in Antraigues (Ardèche): 'stupidity destroys a symbol,' laments the mayor."
    caption="L'arbre de la liberté vandalisé à Antraigues (Ardèche) : 'la bêtise abat un symbole' déplore la maire" %}


The tree, a symbol of freedom, in Antraigues (Ardèche) was vandalized on the night of May 23-24, a few hours after it was planted. The mayor of the municipality expressed her dismay at this act, which consisted of cutting down a tree symbolizing solidarity and respect. She also filed a complaint for this vandalism.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/ardeche-07/vallees-d-antraigues-asperjoc/l-arbre-de-la-liberte-vandalise-a-antraigues-ardeche-la-betise-abat-un-symbole-deplore-la-maire-3112373?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### The mayor of Vienna is 'shocked' after the acquittal of two LFI activists who were filmed vandalizing a statue.


The mayor of Vienna expressed his surprise and disapproval after two activists from the Left Party (LFI) were acquitted of damaging a statue. The incident was reported on the website Place Grenet, which published an article entitled "The mayor of Vienna 'shocked' after the acquittal of two LFI activists filmed damaging a statue."

*[Source](https://www.placegrenet.fr/2026/05/21/le-maire-de-vienne-scandalise-apres-la-relaxe-de-deux-militantes-lfi-ayant-ete-filmees-en-train-de-degrader-une-statue/680254)*


### 'I couldn't have asked for anything better': he cycles 4,000 km in New Zealand to fight cancer.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/rb8V1lCZn6xRtrMd5zHGmCtxlMI/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/16/6a0888b7b981d950550939.jpg"
    alt="'I couldn't have asked for anything better': he cycles 4,000 km in New Zealand to fight cancer."
    caption="'Je n'aurais pas pu rêver mieux' : il parcourt 4 000 km à vélo en Nouvelle-Zélande pour lutter contre le cancer" %}


Fabien Grépat, a 25-year-old from Isère, has been undertaking an extraordinary challenge since mid-April, cycling nearly 4,000 km in New Zealand to support the association La Ligue contre le cancer (The League Against Cancer). This adventure is a physical and mental challenge, undertaken independently in difficult conditions, on the other side of the world. The young man says: "I couldn't have asked for anything better."

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/je-n-aurais-pas-pu-rever-mieux-il-parcourt-4-000-km-a-velo-en-nouvelle-zelande-pour-lutter-contre-le-cancer-3351727.html)*



## Drôme


### In pictures. Over 30 degrees in Ardèche, Drôme, and Vaucluse, tourists and residents are seeking the coolness.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/771FE0CC-6208-49F6-A64F-6CF1A08A306B/NW_listB/plus-de-30-degres-en-mai-touristes-et-habitants-cherchent-la-fraicheur-1779714547.jpg"
    alt="In pictures. Over 30 degrees in Ardèche, Drôme, and Vaucluse, tourists and residents are seeking the coolness."
    caption="En images. Plus de 30 degrés en Ardèche, Drôme et Vaucluse, touristes et habitants cherchent la fraîcheur" %}


In France, a heatwave struck the country on May 25th, with temperatures exceeding 30 degrees Celsius in the Ardèche, Drôme, and Vaucluse regions. Tourists and residents are desperately seeking ways to cool down. In cities and in the countryside, the search for a way to cool down is intense. Solutions can be found in parks, along rivers, or by taking a walk. There are many ways to cool down in these regions, particularly in the Ardèche, Drôme, and Vaucluse.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/environnement/2026/05/25/plus-de-33-degres-en-ardeche-drome-et-vaucluse-touristes-et-habitants-cherchent-la-fraicheur)*


### Drôme. A raid forced an armed man out of his room and threatened to 'detonate a grenade.'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/1CF5353B-8969-4F1A-8F0E-C64C69C9E7ED/NW_listB/le-raid-deloge-un-homme-retranche-dans-sa-chambre-et-menacant-de-degoupiller-une-grenade-1779700647.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. A raid forced an armed man out of his room and threatened to 'detonate a grenade.'"
    caption="Drôme. Le raid déloge un homme retranché dans sa chambre et menaçant de « dégoupiller une grenade »" %}


In the Drôme region, a family crisis turned into a police case on May 24th in Bourg-lès-Valence. A man in his forties had barricaded himself in his room and threatened to use a grenade in the context of a family dispute. He had claimed to possess firearms and a grenade. The intervention of the RAID (Rapid Intervention Regiment of the National Gendarmerie) and the local police allowed the situation to be resolved after negotiations.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/25/le-raid-intervient-pour-deloger-un-homme-retranche-dans-sa-chambre-et-menacant-de-degoupiller-une-grenade)*


### Drôme. Rave party: According to the prefecture, around 600 reports have been filed.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/E3449821-B1B3-4194-9923-846EB7A741F0/NW_listB/rave-party-pres-de-600-proces-verbaux-ont-ete-dresses-indique-la-prefecture-1779705177.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Rave party: According to the prefecture, around 600 reports have been filed."
    caption="Drôme. Rave party : près de 600 procès-verbaux ont été dressés indique la préfecture" %}


In the Drôme region, according to the prefecture, around 600 reports were written in connection with a rave party that took place from Friday, May 22nd to Saturday, May 23rd. Despite the authorities' efforts, the installation of this party on a private property located in Salles-sous-Bois, in the south of Drôme, on the Barbe plain, could not be prevented.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/25/rave-party-pres-de-600-proces-verbaux-ont-ete-dresses-indique-la-prefecture)*


### Valencian Muslim School: Mayor and former Prefect of the Drôme, dismissed from the hearing, the case could be judged outside the department.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/gL_sf-TLAXh226qISlX3uOLbiXo/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2024/04/23/376866949-869213614814573-1321504301906642843-n-1-6627cb6f9bf15699852500.jpeg"
    alt="Valencian Muslim School: Mayor and former Prefect of the Drôme, dismissed from the hearing, the case could be judged outside the department."
    caption="École musulmane de Valence : renvoie d'audience du maire et de l’ex préfète de la Drôme, l'affaire pourrait être jugée en dehors du département" %}


The Muslim school in Valence is at the origin of a legal case, as the mayor of the city and the former prefect of the Drôme were summoned to the criminal court on May 21st. They are being prosecuted by the managing association of the Muslim school due to the cancellation of a municipal land sale, which has caused controversy. However, the court was unable to hear the case and the hearing has been postponed until next October. Furthermore, the proceedings could be transferred outside the department.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/drome/valence/ecole-musulmane-de-valence-renvoie-d-audience-du-maire-et-de-l-ex-prefete-de-la-drome-l-affaire-pourrait-etre-jugee-en-dehors-du-departement-3354967.html)*


### Drôme and Ardèche. How do 'small' animal parks survive?


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/32F3CA91-8237-4D83-8127-066CA60334DE/NW_listB/comment-les-petits-parcs-animaliers-resistent-1779719244.jpg"
    alt="Drôme and Ardèche. How do 'small' animal parks survive?"
    caption="Drôme et Ardèche. Comment les “petits” parcs animaliers résistent" %}


The zoos of Drôme and Ardèche have managed to compete and overcome economic challenges despite their more modest status compared to establishments like Beauval, the PAL, or the Safari Park of Peaugres. Although these parks face strong competition, they are able to attract thousands of visitors thanks to their adaptation to the circumstances.

The zoo of Upie, which will celebrate its 50th anniversary in 2026, is a remarkable example of resilience and success in this field. Located in the Drôme-Ardèche region, the zoo of Upie has distinguished itself through its quality of service, its commitment to species conservation, and its animal care.

The park welcomes more than 100,000 visitors each year, which testifies to its popularity with the public. The zoo of Upie is also recognized for its commitment to the conservation of endangered species and its efforts in captive breeding.

The park hosts a variety of animal species, from primates to exotic birds, reptiles and mammals. Visitors can also enjoy various activities and shows, such as animal shows, guided tours and educational workshops.

The zoo of Upie is a remarkable example of resilience and success in the field of smaller zoos. Despite certain competition and a difficult economic context, the zoos of Drôme and Ardèche continue to attract thousands of visitors thanks to their adaptation to the circumstances and their commitment to species conservation.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/economie/2026/05/25/comment-les-petits-zoos-resistent)*



## Île-de-France


### With the heat, there are already the first deadly drownings: 'We expect to see more and more drownings every year!'


Due to climate change, the first deaths by drowning are already being recorded during swimming. Experts predict that the number of drownings will increase each year. This trend is due to rising water temperatures, which make swimming more dangerous for people who are not strong swimmers or who are not properly prepared. It is therefore important to take precautions when engaging in water activities and to learn rescue techniques. Authorities must also implement safety measures, such as beach surveillance and the installation of warning signs. In addition, it is necessary to raise public awareness of the seriousness of this situation and the measures to take to protect oneself.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/societe/avec-la-chaleur-deja-de-premieres-baignades-mortelles-on-sattend-a-avoir-de-plus-en-plus-de-noyades-chaque-annee-25-05-2026-Y233PB5RQNEEZCVJDMEIXMQKRM.php)*


### What are the Abraham Accords, which Trump wants the countries of the Gulf to sign?


The Abraham Accords, also known as the Agreement for a Comprehensive Israeli-Arab Peace, are a set of peace treaties proposed by the United States to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and improve relations between Israel and several Arab countries in the Gulf. The agreements include provisions on security, economy, technology, and cultural cooperation. President Trump announced his intention to have these agreements signed by the heads of state of Gulf countries in September 2020 at an international conference at the Washington DC Hilton. The agreements have been criticized by some for their lack of Palestinian participation and for not adopting the principles of a two-state solution to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/cest-quoi-les-accords-dabraham-que-trump-veut-faire-signer-aux-pays-du-golfe-25-05-2026-2URGX4RI7VHKRE4V3BWKCWDZQ4.php)*


### Sports and heat: what are the health risks? An explanation from a doctor


Title: Health Risks During Sports Activities in Hot Weather

The heat is a major factor to consider during physical activity, as it can lead to various health complications. The most common effects are overheating and hyponatremia, which can lead to serious health problems if not treated quickly.

Overheating occurs when the body is unable to regulate its temperature and lose enough heat to maintain a normal temperature. Symptoms include muscle pain, nausea, vomiting, headaches, dizziness, and collapse. Overheating can lead to serious complications such as extreme dehydration, acute kidney failure, heart problems, and even death.

Hyponatremia occurs when the body loses too many electrolytes due to excessive fluid loss. Symptoms include nausea, vomiting, headaches, dizziness, and collapse. Hyponatremia can lead to complications such as pulmonary edema, extreme dehydration, and heart problems.

To reduce the risk of overheating and hyponatremia during physical activity in hot weather, it is important to take several precautions. It is important to wear light, breathable clothing, drink regularly to avoid dehydration, protect yourself from the sun with sunscreen, and avoid intense physical activity during the hottest hours of the day. It is also important to train gradually and be aware of your own limits to avoid overexertion.

In conclusion, physical activity in hot weather can lead to health risks such as overheating and hyponatremia. To reduce these risks, it is important to take several precautions such as wearing light, breathable clothing, drinking regularly to avoid dehydration, protecting yourself from the sun with sunscreen, and avoiding intense physical activity during the hottest hours of the day. It is also important to train gradually and be aware of your own limits to avoid overexertion.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/meteo/forte-chaleur-et-sport-un-medecin-decrit-ce-quil-faut-savoir-des-risques-pour-la-sante-25-05-2026-TJ5BYBT55BG37JK4MBACXXDHWE.php)*


### Heatwave: Eight departments placed on orange alert for Tuesday


Heatwave: Eight departments have been placed on orange alert for Tuesday due to extreme weather conditions, including high temperatures and intense sunshine. Authorities have urged citizens to take precautions to avoid the risk of overheating and wildfires. Vulnerable individuals, such as children, the elderly, or those with pre-existing health conditions, are advised to stay in cool and well-ventilated areas. Wildfires are also likely to increase due to the extreme weather conditions, so it is important to follow safety rules in the event of a fire.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/meteo/vague-de-chaleur-huit-departements-places-en-vigilance-orange-pour-la-journee-de-mardi-25-05-2026-6HKAIPGIRREWRD27LENTOLVKAI.php)*


### Ukraine War: The 'B1 Centauro,' an Italian tank, delivered to Kiev, proves its worth with a record-breaking range of 11 km.


War in Ukraine: The Italian B1 Centauro tank has been delivered to Kiev and has proven its effectiveness with a record-breaking range of 11 km. This heavy artillery combat vehicle is equipped with an automatic 120 mm howitzer, capable of firing guided and unguided projectiles. It was delivered as part of Italian military aid to Ukraine to strengthen its defensive capabilities against Russian aggression. The B1 Centauro is considered a modern and effective artillery combat tank, capable of providing powerful fire support to Ukrainian troops engaged in combat.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/ukraine/guerre-en-ukraine-le-b1-centauro-char-italien-livre-a-kiev-sillustre-par-sa-portee-avec-une-frappe-record-de-11-km-25-05-2026-Z7RX2H34HNCXDHXLHBG6FXK2MA.php)*


