---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Feminism, accidents, sports, strikes, and more in France"
ref: 2026-05-31-evening
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, evening]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/7ec0d188-8e7b-4e4d-834b-b0adaf814b3b/464x261_sc_capture-d-ecran-2026-05-31-a-12-07-14.jpg"
description: >-
  Evening news digest for 2026-05-31. Feminism, Maud Séguier, concert, Vaucluse, incivility, Hauts-Plateaux Vercors, Grenoble metropolis, street pooling, charred body, Échirolles, head-on collision, RN7, fifty-year-old Isère resident, two young women injured, Valence, electricity pylon, bodybuilding, Drôme, strike, school supervisors, Europa Cup, PSG, Europe 2026, Champ-de-Mars, photos, targeted therapies, stubborn tumors, Elitloppet 2026, Sweden, home victory
date: 2026-05-31 19:00:02 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### 'On the path of feminism', the first bilingual feminist essay by Maud Séguier


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/7ec0d188-8e7b-4e4d-834b-b0adaf814b3b/464x261_sc_capture-d-ecran-2026-05-31-a-12-07-14.jpg"
    alt="'On the path of feminism', the first bilingual feminist essay by Maud Séguier"
    caption="'Sul camin del feminisme', le premier essai féministe bilingue de Maud Séguier" %}


"On the Path of Feminism" is the first bilingual feminist essay by Maud Séguier, a musician and committed activist. This book marks the first publication of a feminist essay in Occitan and French. The work deals with the role of women in society, the violence they experience, and the struggles that unite them. Maud Séguier addresses various topics such as equal pay, sexual harassment, the representation of women in culture and politics, as well as strategies for promoting a more equitable society. The author invites readers to reflect on the progress made and the challenges that remain to achieve a world where everyone is equal.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/emissions/meitat-chen-meitat-porc/sul-camin-del-feminisme-le-premier-essai-feministe-en-occitan-de-maud-seguier-1176338?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Vanessa Paradis to perform live this summer at an incredible venue in the Vaucluse.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/a0fd6c2e-7f4e-403b-b05a-7e3145ba9859/464x261_sc_hotel-dieu-carpentras.jpg"
    alt="Vanessa Paradis to perform live this summer at an incredible venue in the Vaucluse."
    caption="Vanessa Paradis en concert cet été dans un lieu incroyable du Vaucluse" %}


Vanessa Paradis will perform in concert this summer in an exceptional venue located in the Vaucluse department. The Hôtel-Dieu de Carpentras and the electronic music events in Avignon are among the five must-see locations recommended by Pascal Maurin.

The Hôtel-Dieu de Carpentras is an ancient hospital dating back to the Middle Ages, which has been converted into a concert and contemporary art exhibition hall. It offers a unique atmosphere with its walls, which are two meters thick, and its slate roof.

The electronic music events in Avignon are an annual event that brings together international DJs in the city's most beautiful venues, such as the Palais des Papes or the Jardin des Doms.

The ancient theater of Orange is another notable venue in the Vaucluse. It dates back to the 1st century BC and hosts classical music concerts every summer, including those by the Opéra de Paris.

The Château de la Croze is a vineyard located in Cavaillon, which offers outdoor concerts during the summer. Visitors can also discover a contemporary art exhibition and taste the wines produced on site.

Finally, the Château de Valréas is a vineyard located in the Côtes-du-Rhône. It hosts classical and jazz music concerts during the summer, as well as a wine and local gastronomy fair.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/emissions/le-carnet-d-adresses-ici-vaucluse/vanessa-paradis-en-concert-cet-ete-dans-un-lieu-incroyable-du-vaucluse-5491705?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### 'We are seeing far too much damage': fires, campsites, drones... Incivility is increasing in the Vercors plateau region.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/hAJEY5vz5Ye2JzFuGbnwKZ4LUCM/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/31/6a1c0dd17f35b988785974.jpg"
    alt="'We are seeing far too much damage': fires, campsites, drones... Incivility is increasing in the Vercors plateau region."
    caption="'On constate beaucoup trop de dégâts' : feux, bivouacs, drones… Les incivilités se multiplient sur les Hauts-Plateaux du Vercors" %}


Incivilities are on the rise in the Vercors highlands, with illegal campfires, unauthorized camping, and drone flights. These incidents often occur during certain weekends in the protected natural area of the Vercors highlands. Park rangers patrol to remind visitors of the rules in this protected area in order to prevent excessive damage.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/on-constate-beaucoup-trop-de-degats-feux-bivouacs-drones-les-incivilites-se-multiplient-sur-les-hauts-plateaux-du-vercors-3360112.html)*


### 14 fire hydrants opened and 3 million liters of water lost in five days: the city of Grenoble faces 'street pooling'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/79w7C1fUOjfRHz9sCjnSjlktIio/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/29/6a19a47df278b470990247.jpg"
    alt="14 fire hydrants opened and 3 million liters of water lost in five days: the city of Grenoble faces 'street pooling'"
    caption="14 bouches d'incendie ouvertes et 3 millions de litres d’eau perdus en cinq jours : la métropole de Grenoble confrontée au 'street pooling'" %}


The city of Grenoble is facing a phenomenon called "street pooling," which involves the illegal and abusive use of fire hydrants to cool off during periods of extreme heat. Since last Monday, fourteen illegal water sources have been opened in the city, resulting in a waste of over 3 million liters of water in five days. This practice is a concern for local authorities, who are seeking to end this situation and protect public resources.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/14-bornes-a-incendie-ouvertes-et-3-millions-de-litres-d-eau-perdus-en-cinq-jours-la-metropole-de-grenoble-confrontee-au-street-pooling-3359512.html)*


### A charred body found in a burning car in Échirolles: 'cartridges and a jerrycan of gasoline' found at the scene.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/lCqUhbxJwNHFneH5qg23gFUje5E/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/24/6a12b1bdcefd9899366048.jpg"
    alt="A charred body found in a burning car in Échirolles: 'cartridges and a jerrycan of gasoline' found at the scene."
    caption="Un corps calciné découvert dans une voiture en feu à Échirolles : 'des cartouches et un bidon d'essence' retrouvés sur place" %}


A charred body was found in a burning car in a parking lot in Échirolles, near Grenoble (Isère), on Sunday morning. The victim was completely burned and has not yet been identified. Cartridges and a can of gasoline were found at the scene, which would lead investigators to suspect foul play. The items found near the scene could provide further details on the ongoing investigation.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/un-corps-calcine-decouvert-dans-une-voiture-en-feu-a-echirolles-des-cartouches-et-un-bidon-d-essence-retrouves-sur-place-3356182.html)*



## Drôme


### Drôme. Head-on collision on the RN7: a 50-year-old man from Isère is killed, two young women are seriously injured.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/6F4A358E-DD02-4FD0-8B2E-8A554A1289E4/NW_listB/choc-frontal-sur-la-rn7-un-quinquagenaire-iserois-tue-deux-jeunes-femmes-gravement-blessees-1780244958.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Head-on collision on the RN7: a 50-year-old man from Isère is killed, two young women are seriously injured."
    caption="Drôme. Choc frontal sur la RN7 : un quinquagénaire isérois tué, deux jeunes femmes gravement blessées" %}


A head-on collision on the national highway RN7 near Étoile-sur-Rhône, in the Drôme department, resulted in the death of a 50-year-old man from Isère and serious injuries for two young women. The incident occurred on Sunday, May 31st. Three other people were also injured, including a child. The event required a significant deployment of emergency services and resulted in the prolonged closure of the road.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/31/choc-frontal-sur-la-rn7-un-quinquagenaire-iserois-tue-deux-jeunes-femmes-gravement-blessees)*


### Valence. Police and firefighters dissuade a man from suicide from a high-voltage power pole.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/6670D419-C93C-4EA5-B4CA-7FB68D0C6E17/NW_listB/policiers-et-pompiers-dissuadent-un-homme-de-se-suicider-depuis-un-pylone-electrique-de-haute-tension-1780252867.jpg"
    alt="Valence. Police and firefighters dissuade a man from suicide from a high-voltage power pole."
    caption="Valence. Policiers et pompiers dissuadent un homme de se suicider depuis un pylône électrique de haute tension" %}


On May 31st in Valence, the national police and firefighters collaborated to prevent a man from committing suicide from a high-voltage pylon. This extraordinary event required coordinated intervention between the two services. The authorities were able to convince the individual to descend safely, thus ending this dramatic situation.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/31/policiers-et-pompiers-dissuadent-un-homme-de-se-suicider-depuis-un-pylone-electrique-de-haute-tension)*


### Drôme. 'What age do you think I am?' At 78, this Drômois is still practicing bodybuilding.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/9CD029C8-3C42-4E61-BCD8-CB94DFD5DA88/NW_listB/vous-me-donnez-quel-age-a-78-ans-ce-dromois-pratique-encore-le-culturisme-1780244730.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. 'What age do you think I am?' At 78, this Drômois is still practicing bodybuilding."
    caption="Drôme. « Vous me donnez quel âge ? » : à 78 ans, ce Drômois pratique encore le culturisme" %}


In the Drôme region, a 78-year-old resident continues to practice bodybuilding. The Europa Cup, a bodybuilding competition, was held in Valencia on Sunday, May 31st, bringing together nearly 70 athletes. In the over 54 age category, some competitors were almost 80 years old.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/sport/2026/05/31/je-suis-exigeant-avec-mon-corps-a-78-ans-ce-dromois-pratique-encore-le-culturisme)*


### Drôme. A strike to support school and high school supervisors will take place this Tuesday, June 2nd.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/AA8C17C6-2836-409F-A6C6-D88188A89A08/NW_listB/une-greve-pour-soutenir-les-surveillants-des-colleges-et-des-lycees-ce-mardi-2-juin-1780247779.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. A strike to support school and high school supervisors will take place this Tuesday, June 2nd."
    caption="Drôme. Une grève pour soutenir les surveillants des collèges et des lycées ce mardi 2 juin" %}


A strike is planned for June 2nd in the Drôme department in support of school and high school supervisors. This action could cause disruptions to school operations in this region. It is a collective demonstration aimed at expressing professional demands, particularly regarding wages and working conditions. Local authorities and unions are called upon to continue negotiations in order to find a fair and sustainable solution.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/education/2026/05/31/une-greve-pour-soutenir-les-surveillants-des-colleges-et-des-lycees-ce-mardi-2-juin)*


### Drôme. 'I'm demanding with my body': What do the bodybuilders who participate in the Europa Cup actually eat?


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/99338C9D-7522-4988-8D7F-DE39A5A7DD98/NW_listB/je-suis-exigeant-avec-mon-corps-que-mangent-vraiment-les-culturistes-qui-participent-a-l-europa-cup-1780244732.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. 'I'm demanding with my body': What do the bodybuilders who participate in the Europa Cup actually eat?"
    caption="Drôme. « Je suis exigeant avec mon corps » : que mangent vraiment les culturistes qui participent à l'Europa Cup ?" %}


The Europa Cup competition took place in Valencia on May 31st and featured nearly 70 athletes. Behind their muscular appearance on stage, bodybuilders follow a strict diet. The food consumed by these athletes includes makeup, honey, and pre-packaged chicken and rice. The goal of this diet is to optimize their physique for competition.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/sport/2026/05/31/je-suis-exigeant-avec-mon-corps-que-mangent-vraiment-les-culturistes-qui-participent-a-l-europa-cup)*



## Île-de-France


### 'Even the substitutes don't complain': unconditional fans or recent converts, why are they so crazy about PSG?


The text "Even the substitutes don't complain" discusses the attitude of reserve players and new recruits at Paris Saint-Germain (PSG).

The authors point out that these players, whether they are regulars or new to the team, do not show disappointment or frustration despite their status as substitutes. This is because they are happy to be at PSG and are fully dedicated to their work, even if they do not play in every match.

This attitude is attributed to several factors. Firstly, the competition for starting positions is fierce within the team, which encourages each player to give their all. Secondly, the substitutes have a great deal of confidence in their coach, Thomas Tuchel, and are convinced that their opportunity will come eventually.

Finally, the authors emphasize that this attitude is also due to the club's culture. PSG is known for its professionalism and discipline, which encourages each player to give their best, regardless of their position in the team.

In conclusion, the substitutes at PSG don't complain because they are happy to be at the club and are fully dedicated to their work, despite their status as substitutes. This attitude is due to the competition for starting positions, the confidence in the coach, and the club's culture.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/football/ligue-des-champions/meme-les-remplacants-ne-font-pas-la-gueule-inconditionnels-ou-nouveaux-convertis-pourquoi-ils-sont-raides-dingues-du-psg-31-05-2026-PTRIUWO4LNG7XOXGRV7OKCGP7M.php)*


### Netherlands: A man kills himself by jumping from a hot air balloon and ends his fall in a garden.


Netherlands: A person fell from a hot air balloon and died during their landing, which occurred in a garden. The event took place on Sunday, June 26, 2022, during an annual festival in Utrecht. The exact details of the circumstances surrounding the death have not been disclosed. Authorities have confirmed that the incident is under investigation.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/faits-divers/pays-bas-un-homme-se-tue-en-sautant-dune-montgolfiere-et-finit-sa-chute-dans-un-jardin-31-05-2026-IHAJJBATP5DEVKYKTVS7BAE27M.php)*


### Elitloppet 2026: The Allegiant rocket sweeps away the French and allows Sweden to regain victory at home.


On May 15, 2026, the Elitloppet horse race took place in Sweden. The American team, Allegiant, won the competition, defeating the French competitors and allowing Sweden to achieve a home victory after several years of absence.

Allegiant, trained by Ron Burke, finished the race in 1 min 53 s 4, breaking the track record. The American horse was considered a favorite before the race and did not disappoint.

The French team, represented by the Orlando Vici horses, had won the previous edition in 2025. Unfortunately for them, they had to settle for second place this year.

The victory of Allegiant was enthusiastically received by the Swedish spectators, who had waited several years to see their country achieve a home victory in this prestigious race.

This victory also marks the first time that Allegiant has won a high-level international competition. The American team was praised for its exceptional performance and is considered a favorite for future international horse races.

In conclusion, the 2026 Elitloppet race was a resounding victory for the American team, Allegiant, who defeated the French competitors and allowed Sweden to achieve a home victory after several years of absence.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/hippisme/elitloppet-2026-la-fusee-allegiant-balaye-les-francais-et-permet-a-la-suede-de-renouer-avec-la-victoire-a-domicile-31-05-2026-MGMWZTRX7RC33HCZNBAF5DUK4Q.php)*


### Targeted therapies for tumors: these pills that are able to tame even the most aggressive cancers


Targeted cancer treatments: these pills are capable of controlling certain types of cancers that are particularly resistant. These treatments use specific molecules to attack and kill cancer cells while minimizing the impact on healthy cells. They can be administered orally or by intravenous injection, and their effectiveness has been demonstrated in the treatment of many types of cancer, including breast, kidney, lung, and brain cancer. Targeted therapies are often more precise than conventional treatments, which reduces side effects and improves the quality of life for patients. However, they can also be more expensive, and their use is often limited by health insurance. Furthermore, some types of cancer are less sensitive to these treatments, which can limit their effectiveness.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/societe/sante/therapies-ciblees-contre-les-tumeurs-ces-comprimes-qui-arrivent-a-dompter-les-cancers-les-plus-coriaces-31-05-2026-IAE7NIC44ZERNP6PUJX5WJAU5U.php)*


### PSG Champions of Europe 2026: The celebration on the Champ-de-Mars in photos


Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) wins the European edition of the Champions League in 2026, and the city of Paris celebrates this historic victory on the Champ-de-Mars. Images show a crowd of amazed people, with PSG supporters cheering and shouting in the air, waving club flags and posters. Fireworks illuminate the Parisian night, creating an impressive visual spectacle. The PSG players, wearing their champion jerseys, join the crowd, thanking the supporters and celebrating their victory. The city of Paris is transformed into a grand celebration, with concerts, nightclubs and special events organized to mark this unique occasion. This PSG victory marks a turning point in the history of French football, as it is the first time that the club has won the Champions League.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/football/ligue-des-champions/le-psg-champion-deurope-2026-le-recit-de-la-celebration-au-champ-de-mars-en-photos-31-05-2026-G2QFDRYECRD7ZBPP6J2QJQW6FY.php)*


