---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "France coach mourned, Norway mourns Deschamps' passing"
ref: 2026-06-24-morning
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, morning]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/pikapi/images/260a0e15-1fce-43d0-9a85-c11b1b96ab2e/920x517?webp=false"
description: >-
  Morning news digest for 2026-06-24. Global: Didier Deschamps, death, France, Norway, coach
date: 2026-06-24 04:00:03 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### Mondial: Didier Deschamps will return to France after the death of his mother, the coach will be absent for the match against Norway.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/pikapi/images/260a0e15-1fce-43d0-9a85-c11b1b96ab2e/920x517?webp=false"
    alt="Mondial: Didier Deschamps will return to France after the death of his mother, the coach will be absent for the match against Norway."
    caption="Mondial : Didier Deschamps va rentrer en France après le décès de sa mère, le sélectionneur absent face à la Norvège" %}


In the world of international football, Didier Deschamps has announced his return to France following the death of his mother. The French Football Federation confirmed this death on Tuesday evening. As a result, Deschamps will not be present for the group match against Norway next Friday. It should be noted that Didier Deschamps is the coach of the French national team, "Les Bleus".

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/sports/football/mondial-didier-deschamps-rentre-en-france-apres-le-deces-de-sa-mere-le-selectionneur-absent-face-a-la-norvege-8745182?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Heatwave: 'The sun is beating down on us, but there's no choice,' the difficult daily life of bicycle couriers, who remain mobilized despite the heat


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/fs7xAqtKgr0JNw5iSNKwgEYjRQM/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/23/6a3a9df18e37f016554475.jpg"
    alt="Heatwave: 'The sun is beating down on us, but there's no choice,' the difficult daily life of bicycle couriers, who remain mobilized despite the heat"
    caption="Canicule : 'Le soleil nous frappe mais on n’a pas le choix', le quotidien difficile des livreurs à vélo, toujours mobilisés malgré la chaleur" %}


Heatwave: "The sun is beating down on us, but there's no choice," this is how cyclists describe their difficult daily routine during a heatwave that affected the Isère region on Tuesday for the fourth consecutive day. High temperatures make it difficult for people working outdoors, including cyclists who are forced to continue their deliveries despite the heat. The Isère region is on orange heatwave alert, which means that temperatures reach or exceed 35°C in certain areas.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/canicule-le-soleil-nous-frappe-mais-on-n-a-pas-le-choix-le-quotidien-difficile-des-livreurs-a-velo-toujours-mobilises-malgre-la-chaleur-3374266.html)*


### 'Demand is very high': This online bookstore in Grenoble, a competitor to Amazon, is seizing a promising new market.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/XD_vQKU_aXhM99Dqi8_d0JHvt5Y/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/22/6a393a377e971113266400.jpg"
    alt="'Demand is very high': This online bookstore in Grenoble, a competitor to Amazon, is seizing a promising new market."
    caption="'La demande est très forte' : concurrente d'Amazon, cette librairie en ligne grenobloise à l'assaut d'un nouveau marché porteur" %}


The online bookstore Lireka, based in Grenoble, which is a competitor to Amazon, is seeking to enter a new, lucrative market: European expatriates looking for books in their native language around the world. This market includes hundreds of millions of people, and Lireka has launched a crowdfunding campaign to finance its expansion. The company, based in Grenoble, already sells books in French online and wants to expand to other European languages.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/la-demande-est-tres-forte-concurrente-d-amazon-cette-librairie-en-ligne-grenobloise-a-l-assaut-d-un-nouveau-marche-porteur-3373129.html)*


### 'It's dangerous': accusations of fraud and interference, thesis defense rejected, Université Grenoble Alpes in open conflict with two researchers


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/xSo9j4PAu4r6BV7S0-h0bPhgmqM/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/18/6a33f8faab6cd763295788.jpg"
    alt="'It's dangerous': accusations of fraud and interference, thesis defense rejected, Université Grenoble Alpes in open conflict with two researchers"
    caption="'C’est dangereux' : accusations de fraude et d’ingérence, soutenance de thèse refusée, l'Université Grenoble Alpes en conflit ouvert avec deux chercheurs" %}


The open conflict between the Université Grenoble Alpes and two researchers is currently marked by accusations of scientific fraud and interference, as well as a rejected thesis defense. For a month, this situation has deteriorated into a scientific controversy that now risks having legal repercussions. This explosive atmosphere raises concerns about the freedom of research at the Université Grenoble Alpes.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/c-est-dangereux-accusations-de-fraude-et-d-ingerence-soutenance-de-these-refusee-l-universite-grenoble-alpes-en-conflit-ouvert-avec-deux-chercheurs-3370849.html)*


### Temperatures up to 39°C in Isère and 36°C in Savoie: a heatwave is settling in the Alps: 'We are seeing remarkable levels.'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/BZq0qIwH0YgZm9Dn4h8ZJYtnDmA/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/16/6a3162d50517f105346967.jpg"
    alt="Temperatures up to 39°C in Isère and 36°C in Savoie: a heatwave is settling in the Alps: 'We are seeing remarkable levels.'"
    caption="Jusqu'à 39°C en Isère et 36°C dans les Savoie, une vague de chaleur s'installe dans les Alpes : 'On est sur des niveaux remarquables'" %}


A heatwave has settled over the French Alps, with temperatures reaching up to 39°C in Isère and 36°C in Savoie. This situation began to develop this Tuesday. Starting Wednesday, Isère, Savoie, and Haute-Savoie will be placed on a yellow heatwave alert. According to Météo-France, this period of heat is expected to intensify throughout the week, with temperatures reaching 39°C between Sunday and next Monday.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/jusqu-a-39-c-en-isere-et-36-c-dans-les-savoie-une-vague-de-chaleur-s-installe-dans-les-alpes-on-est-sur-des-niveaux-remarquables-3369775.html)*



## Drôme


### Romans-sur-Isère. A devastating fire ravages a warehouse: 'It's spectacular and very frightening'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/92D0974F-D95E-4503-9C31-62DFD666BC35/NW_listB/un-violent-incendie-ravage-un-entrepot-c-est-spectaculaire-et-tres-angoissant-1782257496.jpg"
    alt="Romans-sur-Isère. A devastating fire ravages a warehouse: 'It's spectacular and very frightening'"
    caption="Romans-sur-Isère. Un violent incendie ravage un entrepôt : « C'est spectaculaire et très angoissant »" %}


Romans-sur-Isère is a French town located in the Isère department. On February 1, 2023, a devastating fire struck a local warehouse, causing widespread alarm in the region. The flames reached spectacular dimensions, creating a frightening scene for residents and visitors.

Firefighters were immediately mobilized to control the fire, but despite their efforts, the building was completely destroyed. Those present on the scene, including local residents, watched helplessly as the flames wreaked havoc.

Local authorities stated that the fire did not result in any serious injuries or deaths, but the damage is considerable. The cause of the fire is not yet known and is the subject of an ongoing investigation.

This disaster has caused great emotion in the local community, which is now working to come together to help the victims and repair the damage. Firefighters continued to work on the scene to extinguish the remaining flames and ensure the safety of the surrounding area.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/06/24/un-violent-incendie-ravage-un-entrepot-c-est-spectaculaire-et-tres-angoissant)*


### Fragonard and Hubert Robert: An exceptional exhibition at the Valence Museum


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/yg0LJ9Tib7EVJXDKF1WV7L7tSiU/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/06/16/6a31717ccaa68770912117.jpg"
    alt="Fragonard and Hubert Robert: An exceptional exhibition at the Valence Museum"
    caption="Fragonard et Hubert Robert, une exposition exceptionnelle au musée de Valence" %}


Exceptional exhibition at the Valence Museum: for the first time in over 30 years, the masters Hubert Robert and Jean-Honoré Fragonard are brought together in an exhibition. Hubert Robert was known for his love of ruins and their splendor, while Fragonard preferred the poetry of gardens. Together, they contributed to reinventing nature in the 18th century by offering idyllic and romantic views of French nature. The exhibition presents over 100 works by these two artists, including paintings, drawings, and engravings. It will allow visitors to appreciate the evolution of their style and their influence on French art in the 18th century.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/drome/valence/fragonard-et-hubert-robert-une-exposition-exceptionnelle-au-musee-de-valence-3369988.html)*


### Drôme. A truck driver dies on the A7 motorway after suffering a medical episode while driving.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/8BAB0FDF-4E52-44A5-8FA6-B96DD2618251/NW_listB/un-chauffeur-routier-decede-sur-l-autoroute-a7-apres-avoir-fait-un-malaise-au-volant-1782191531.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. A truck driver dies on the A7 motorway after suffering a medical episode while driving."
    caption="Drôme. Un chauffeur routier décède sur l'autoroute A7 après avoir fait un malaise au volant" %}


A truck driver died in a crash on the A7 motorway in the Drôme region on June 23rd around midnight. The circumstances of this accident are still being clarified. The incident caused significant traffic disruptions, with users of the road experiencing considerable delays. Police and emergency services responded to the scene to manage the event. Investigations are ongoing to determine the exact cause of the accident.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/06/23/un-chauffeur-routier-decede-sur-l-a7-apres-avoir-fait-un-malaise-au-volant)*


### History. Marc Bloch inducted into the Pantheon: who was 'Gueule Tordue,' the gang leader who was originally the subject of his arrest?


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/36141056-F421-4407-8A63-EE5A4DB2EFEE/NW_listB/marc-bloch-entre-au-pantheon-qui-etait-quot-gueule-tordue-quot-le-chef-de-bande-a-l-origine-de-son-arrestation-1782203668.jpg"
    alt="History. Marc Bloch inducted into the Pantheon: who was 'Gueule Tordue,' the gang leader who was originally the subject of his arrest?"
    caption="Histoire. Marc Bloch entre au Panthéon : qui était 'Gueule Tordue', le chef de bande à l'origine de son arrestation ?" %}


Story: Marc Bloch, the historian executed by the Gestapo in June 1944, was inaugurated in the Panthéon on June 23. His arrest was due to a group of resistance fighters known as "Gueule Tordue," whose leader remained unknown. Along with his wife, Simonne Vidal, Bloch joins Missak and Mélinée Manouchian, Maurice Genevoix, and Joséphine Baker, all notable French resistance fighters who were also inaugurated in the Panthéon.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/societe/2026/06/23/marc-bloch-entre-au-pantheon-qui-etait-gueule-tordue-le-chef-de-bande-a-l-origine-de-son-arrestation)*


### Drôme. The Aerotorshow continued with adjustments; the event was described as 'off-ground' by the ecologists.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/70E2EE96-CD59-4016-AA24-2F3CD766D990/NW_listB/l-aerotorshow-maintenu-avec-des-ajustements-l-evenement-qualifie-d-hors-sol-par-les-ecologistes-1782232762.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. The Aerotorshow continued with adjustments; the event was described as 'off-ground' by the ecologists."
    caption="Drôme. L’Aerotorshow maintenu avec des ajustements, l'événement qualifié “d'hors sol” par les Écologistes" %}


The Aerotshow is being held in Drôme, with modifications, despite criticism from environmentalists who describe the event as "out of touch with reality." Despite the intense heatwave, Gamstat, the event organizer, has decided to continue the air show this Sunday, June 28th. The environmentalists from Grand Valence have requested its cancellation, arguing that the event is "out of touch with reality" in the face of the climate emergency.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/culture-loisirs/2026/06/23/l-aerotorshow-maintenu-avec-des-ajustements-l-evenement-qualifie-d-hors-sol-par-les-ecologistes)*



## Île-de-France


### 'What possessed them to build something like that, without any shade?' In Cergy, the heatwave turns into hell on the pavement.


In the city of Cergy, the heat has become extreme, reaching unprecedented levels on the ground. This situation is due to a solar panel, which was recently built and appears to have created a localized greenhouse effect, causing high temperatures. The question is therefore why this structure was designed without taking into account the shade, which has contributed to the intense heat currently being experienced.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/val-d-oise-95/quest-ce-qui-leur-a-pris-de-construire-un-truc-pareil-sans-ombre-a-cergy-la-canicule-vire-a-lenfer-sur-la-dalle-24-06-2026-I4V4IWTP65CFLK6NGJ3LJB256Q.php)*


### In New York, the Democratic party chooses socialist candidates, transforming Mayor Zohran Mamdani into a kingmaker.


In New York, the Democratic primaries resulted in the selection of socialist candidates, making Zohran Mamdani a prominent figure. Mamdani, who was elected to the city council in 2021, is now considered a potential mayoral candidate. This victory represents a significant advance for socialist ideas in New York politics.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/etats-unis/a-new-york-le-parti-democrate-se-choisit-des-candidats-socialistes-transformant-le-maire-zohran-mamdani-en-faiseur-de-roi-24-06-2026-RKAY7ZBEH5CBBMB4PHBLTJUCSQ.php)*


### 'We're going to win the title': Sarr and Coulibaly's Washington Wizards select AJ Dybantsa as the first overall pick in the NBA Draft


The Washington Wizards selected AJ Dybantsa as the first overall pick in the NBA Draft, with Senegalese players Sarr and Coulibaly on the team. This selection is considered a significant step towards winning the championship for the Wizards. Dybantsa, a promising young talent, has been recognized for his exceptional skills on the court. His arrival in Washington could strengthen the team and improve their performance in the regular season and playoffs. Wizards fans are eager to see Dybantsa play with his teammates and hope that this new recruit will contribute to winning the championship.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/basket/on-va-gagner-le-titre-les-washington-wizards-de-sarr-et-coulibaly-selectionnent-aj-dybantsa-en-premier-choix-de-draft-nba-24-06-2026-WRBJUX6C3NGXLERCMKPUW35UOQ.php)*


### 'Towards a civil war': In Bolivia, former President Evo Morales wants to continue fighting and refuses to surrender.


Title: Towards a Political Crisis in Bolivia

The political situation in Bolivia has been tense since the resignation of President Evo Morales on November 10th, followed by controversial elections that resulted in Jeanine Áñez being elected as the new president. However, Morales refuses to surrender and insists on continuing to fight to remain in power.

On November 16th, thousands of Morales supporters demonstrated in La Paz to protest his resignation and call for early elections. Security forces used force to disperse the demonstrations, leading to violent clashes between the two sides.

On November 19th, Morales left the country and went into exile in Argentina, but he continued to call for resistance against the new administration. He also accused the United States of orchestrating his resignation to protect their economic interests in the country.

The political situation in Bolivia is therefore becoming increasingly tense, with violent clashes between Morales supporters and opponents. The Áñez administration has promised to restore stability and hold early elections to end the crisis, but the demonstrations continue and the violence persists.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/vers-une-guerre-civile-en-bolivie-lancien-president-evo-morales-veut-continuer-a-se-battre-et-refuse-de-se-rendre-24-06-2026-DVLOO35ZTZDOPNSJ7HDGVCGWTU.php)*


### In the United States, a second teenager is forcing YouTube to pay compensation for causing damage to his mental health.


In the United States, a teenager successfully obtained compensation from YouTube due to the harm caused to his mental health. The young man had been the victim of online harassment on the video platform, which resulted in negative consequences for his mental state. This decision sets an important precedent in the field of cyberbullying and illustrates the responsibilities that online platforms may have for the mental health of their users.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/high-tech/aux-etats-unis-un-deuxieme-adolescent-oblige-youtube-a-lindemniser-pour-avoir-nui-a-sa-sante-mentale-24-06-2026-OPJRJLKRONCXPGNSFN4Q7MEWJQ.php)*


