---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Tragedy, violence, and celebrations across France and beyond."
ref: 2026-05-29-morning
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, morning]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/0677d490-7cd5-453b-8d14-1394c8316bd1/464x261_sc_sc_whatsapp-image-2026-05-25-at-14-07-12.jpg"
description: >-
  Morning news digest for 2026-05-29. Centre Santé Etoile closure, liquidation; Festival Prés Salés 2026; violent incident, serious injuries in Isère; shooting, death, injuries in Grenoble; solidarity among residents of Grenoble Metropole; chainsaw accident, death of teenager in Drôme; police officer hit in Romans-sur-Isère; death of Zita, 16 months old, in Drôme; weapon, 22-year-old injured in Valence; cigarette butts collected, Mégothon in Valence; tax deduction for housing, parent/child; Blue Origin rocket explosion, Bezos; Festival Saint-Denis Basilica; Ukraine war, Sosnovka; PSG-Arsenal Champs-Élysées, important security
date: 2026-05-29 04:00:03 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### Saint-Martin-d'Hères: The Etoile health center will indeed close, the court orders liquidation.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/0677d490-7cd5-453b-8d14-1394c8316bd1/464x261_sc_sc_whatsapp-image-2026-05-25-at-14-07-12.jpg"
    alt="Saint-Martin-d'Hères: The Etoile health center will indeed close, the court orders liquidation."
    caption="Saint-Martin-d'Hères : le centre de santé l'Etoile va bel et bien fermer, la justice ordonne la liquidation" %}


The Etoile health center in Saint-Martin-d'Hères (Isère) will be closed, according to a decision by the Grenoble court, issued on Thursday, January 28. The judges have set a one-month deadline for the 10,000 patients registered at the center to find an alternative solution. The closure was ordered due to the financial and administrative difficulties of the health center, which could not be saved despite attempts at reorganization. Patients will be informed of the closure and invited to find a new clinic to continue their treatment.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere-38/saint-martin-d-heres/saint-martin-d-heres-le-centre-de-sante-l-etoile-va-bel-et-bien-fermer-la-justice-ordonne-la-liquidation-4645117?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### Festival Prés Salés 2026


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/s3/cruiser-production-eu3/2026/05/8aa077fa-80cd-4dd5-b129-058ae1f9fce2/464x261_sc_632808757-886706577447324-5306681226888623534-n.jpg"
    alt="Festival Prés Salés 2026"
    caption="Festival Prés Salés 2026" %}


The Prés Salés Festival 2026 takes place at the foot of the Vosges mountains and offers a family-friendly and intercultural atmosphere. It features a variety of musical styles, from rap to reggae, folk and rumba, in a festive and eco-friendly spirit. The festival thus offers its visitors a diverse and friendly musical experience.

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/grand-est/alsace-cea/soultzmatt/festival-pres-sales-2026-7565515?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*


### 10 people involved, including several children: a violent collision between three cars results in six injured, including three seriously, in Isère.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/8_BrWUKxBU7nFlO00iWEF8ZCGzE/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/27/6a17204bb6359601592364.jpg"
    alt="10 people involved, including several children: a violent collision between three cars results in six injured, including three seriously, in Isère."
    caption="10 personnes impliquées dont plusieurs enfants : un choc violent entre trois voitures fait six blessés dont trois graves en Isère" %}


On May 27th, a road accident involving three vehicles occurred in Chavanoz, in the Isère department. This accident caused six injuries, including three serious ones. Among the victims were several children. Local authorities are investigating the accident to determine the exact circumstances and identify the possible causes.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/10-personnes-impliquees-dont-plusieurs-enfants-un-choc-violent-entre-trois-voitures-fait-six-blesses-dont-trois-graves-en-isere-3358234.html)*


### One dead and three injured in a shooting in the Mistral district of Grenoble


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/Wj_2F8ICAxPHTHpmA1jLGVFJ0hc/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/27/6a169e3fe74c8711857625.jpg"
    alt="One dead and three injured in a shooting in the Mistral district of Grenoble"
    caption="Un mort et trois blessés lors d'une fusillade dans le quartier Mistral à Grenoble" %}


A shooting occurred on Tuesday evening in the Mistral district of Grenoble, resulting in one death and three injuries. According to available information, a passenger in a car opened fire on a group of people on the street before fleeing. Authorities are investigating the incident, and no further information has been released to date.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/un-mort-et-trois-blesses-dans-une-fusillade-pres-d-un-point-de-deal-dans-le-quartier-mistral-a-grenoble-3357595.html)*


### 'It's not fair that only a few are being rehoused': solidarity remains strong among the occupiers of the Grenoble Métropole headquarters.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/XJF-X-kRP91qeWXtR9T8geLNGnQ/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/23/6a11cc7a76e36722929484.jpg"
    alt="'It's not fair that only a few are being rehoused': solidarity remains strong among the occupiers of the Grenoble Métropole headquarters."
    caption="'Ce n’est pas juste si seulement quelques-uns sont relogés' : la solidarité ne faiblit pas parmi les occupants du siège de la Métropole de Grenoble" %}


The occupants of the Grenoble Metropolitan area continue to maintain their solidarity, six months after the event that occurred in November 2025, when 150 people were evicted from their homes and took refuge in the premises of Grenoble Alpes Métropole. Although most of them have been rehoused, they remain united until a solution is found for each of them.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/ce-n-est-pas-juste-si-seulement-quelques-uns-sont-reloges-la-solidarite-ne-faiblit-pas-parmi-les-occupants-du-siege-de-la-metropole-de-grenoble-3356056.html)*



## Drôme


### Drôme. 16-year-old high school student dies in chainsaw accident.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/C02E3D23-653C-49D5-A137-9C6A5B954617/NW_listB/un-lyceen-de-16-ans-perd-la-vie-dans-un-accident-de-tronconneuse-1779991137.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. 16-year-old high school student dies in chainsaw accident."
    caption="Drôme. Un lycéen de 16 ans perd la vie dans un accident de tronçonneuse" %}


The Drôme department experienced a tragic event on Thursday, May 28th, around 10:30 am: a 16-year-old boy died in an accident that occurred during a school training activity involving approximately twenty other high school students. The exact circumstances of the accident have not been revealed, but it occurred during a chainsaw activity. An investigation is underway to determine the exact cause of this accident and to identify any responsibility. Authorities have offered their condolences to the family of the deceased and to the high school students who knew him.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/28/un-lyceen-de-16-ans-perd-la-vie-dans-un-accident-de-tronconneuse)*


### Romans-sur-Isère. A municipal police officer hit: 'We came very close to a tragedy.'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/7D0F4267-14F3-451D-B28A-5835B5E34419/NW_listB/une-policiere-municipale-percutee-on-est-passe-tout-pres-d-un-drame-1780005212.jpg"
    alt="Romans-sur-Isère. A municipal police officer hit: 'We came very close to a tragedy.'"
    caption="Romans-sur-Isère. Une policière municipale percutée : « On est passé tout près d’un drame »" %}


In Romans-sur-Isère, a municipal police officer was hit in the night from Wednesday to Thursday. The incident occurred when the officer refused to obey the instructions of a driver, a man in his thirties, who was under the influence of alcohol and drugs. The driver was arrested after a car chase. The police officer was injured, but her condition is not considered serious. Authorities have emphasized that the situation was very close to a tragedy.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/28/une-policiere-municipale-percutee-on-est-passe-tout-pres-d-un-drame)*


### Drôme. Death of Zita, aged 16 months: 'I would plead with her to take her to the emergency room,' says a doctor.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/4819BAB2-4886-477E-8EED-D9D6CEE42A70/NW_listB/mort-de-zita-agee-de-16-mois-je-me-vois-la-supplier-de-l-emmener-aux-urgences-temoigne-une-docteure-1780002714.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Death of Zita, aged 16 months: 'I would plead with her to take her to the emergency room,' says a doctor."
    caption="Drôme. Mort de Zita, âgée de 16 mois : « Je me vois la supplier de l'emmener aux urgences », témoigne une docteure" %}


Zita, who died at the age of 16 months, experienced a controversial death in the Drôme department. A doctor testified that she had begged the parents to take their child to the emergency room. The causes of this death are multiple: the parents' reluctance towards traditional medicine, inadequate nutrition, delayed diagnosis, and medical error. During the third day of the trial of her parents, the doctors who had cared for the child in the last hours of his life testified.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/28/mort-de-zita-agee-de-16-mois-je-me-vois-la-supplier-de-l-emmener-aux-urgences-temoigne-une-docteure)*


### Drôme. A 22-year-old man injured with a knife in Valence.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/7CE8C24D-2EC7-40E2-A00B-930923ACC693/NW_listB/un-homme-de-22-ans-blesse-a-l-arme-blanche-a-valence-1780000996.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. A 22-year-old man injured with a knife in Valence."
    caption="Drôme. Un homme de 22 ans blessé à l’arme blanche à Valence" %}


On May 28th at 8:30 PM, emergency services were mobilized in Valence, in the Drôme department, due to a 22-year-old man who was injured by a bladed weapon. The circumstances of the incident are still being clarified.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/05/28/un-homme-de-22-ans-blesse-a-l-arme-blanche-a-valence)*


### Drôme. Mégothon Valence: more than three kilos of cigarette butts collected by volunteers, less than last year.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/9D859A47-304F-4AED-92E2-372A33486FCC/NW_listB/megothon-valence-plus-de-trois-kilos-de-megots-ramasses-par-des-benevoles-moins-que-l-an-passe-1779991823.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Mégothon Valence: more than three kilos of cigarette butts collected by volunteers, less than last year."
    caption="Drôme. Mégothon Valence : plus de trois kilos de mégots ramassés par des bénévoles, moins que l'an passé" %}


The CFDT chemistry energy Dauphiné Vivarais union organized a cigarette butt collection operation in the Drôme, in Valence, on May 27, 2023. The volunteers collected a total of 3.2 kilos of cigarette waste, which is less than the previous year. This action aimed to clean and improve the urban environment of the city.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/environnement/2026/05/28/megothon-valence-plus-de-trois-kilos-de-megots-ramasses-par-des-benevoles-moins-que-l-an-passe)*



## Île-de-France


### Taxes 2026: How to claim a tax deduction when you provide free lodging for a parent or adult child?


In 2026, it is possible to claim a tax deduction for hosting a parent or adult child for free. To do this, you must meet certain conditions:

1. The accommodation must be provided in your primary residence.
2. The parent or adult child must live with you for at least half of the year.
3. You cannot receive any compensation for the accommodation.
4. The living space must be available without restrictions and suitable for a person.
5. The parent or adult child must be a Canadian tax resident.
6. You must be able to prove that you are providing free accommodation to the parent or adult child by providing documents such as electricity, water, and gas bills, etc.
7. It is important to note that the tax deduction cannot exceed the taxable income of the taxpayer.
8. The conditions may vary depending on the provinces and territories, so it is recommended to consult the local government for more information.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/economie/impots/impots-2026-comment-obtenir-une-deduction-fiscale-lorsquon-loge-un-parent-ou-un-enfant-majeur-gratuitement-29-05-2026-SSFUPCKUBZDULCP24YY762YBRU.php)*


### Stunning images of the Blue Origin rocket launch by Jeff Bezos.


On July 20, 2021, Blue Origin, the company founded by Jeff Bezos, conducted its first commercial space mission. The event was marked by the spectacular explosion of a New Shepard rocket during launch. The rocket was intended to carry four passengers and make a suborbital flight into space.

The rocket reached an altitude of 107 kilometers before the explosion occurred, which prevented the passengers from returning to Earth. The four people on board were Jeff Bezos himself, his brother Mark Bezos, pilot Wally Funk, and astronaut Oliver Daemen.

Images of the explosion were broadcast live on social media and sparked a strong reaction from the media and the public. The passengers were able to observe the short duration of about three minutes during which they were in space before the explosion occurred.

Blue Origin stated that an investigation would be conducted to determine the cause of the explosion and to ensure the safety of future commercial space missions. The company also announced that the next flight would be postponed to a later date.

This event has generated great interest in the space industry and has highlighted the technical and safety challenges associated with commercial space missions.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/etats-unis/les-images-impressionnantes-de-lexplosion-dune-fusee-blue-origin-de-jeff-bezos-a-son-decollage-29-05-2026-VRLIXTECOVBIVNM2KV5246QZ4Y.php)*


### Saint-Denis Festival: The Basilica will once again resonate with the sounds of renowned artists and orchestras.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/pjnLWTYnckvCQyQcHc26ZpoeEII/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/27/6a16ff2aa7fd3463370830.jpg"
    alt="Saint-Denis Festival: The Basilica will once again resonate with the sounds of renowned artists and orchestras."
    caption="Festival de Saint-Denis : la Basilique va de nouveau vibrer au rythme des grandes voix et des orchestres" %}


The Saint-Denis Festival is preparing to be reborn from May 28 to June 23, 2026, marking its return for a new edition. The Saint-Denis Basilica, a historic landmark of the city, is set to resonate with the sounds of renowned singers and orchestras.

This edition of the festival will offer a wide range of symphonic concerts, operatic performances, and contemporary works. Visitors will be able to attend a variety of performances, from classical to modern, in the unique historical and cultural setting of the Saint-Denis Basilica.

The Saint-Denis Festival is an important event in the French cultural landscape, bringing together thousands of spectators each year to celebrate classical and contemporary music. This new edition promises to be a unique opportunity for music lovers to come together and share their passion.

The Saint-Denis Festival is also an event that helps to highlight the Saint-Denis Basilica, offering visitors the opportunity to attend performances in an exceptional historical setting. The basilica, built in the 11th century and inscribed on the UNESCO World Heritage List, is a major architectural work that testifies to the history and culture of France.

In summary, the Saint-Denis Festival is returning in 2026 for a new edition featuring grand symphonic concerts, operatic performances, and contemporary works in the setting of the Saint-Denis Basilica. This cultural event promises to be a unique moment for lovers of classical and contemporary music, as well as an opportunity to highlight the Saint-Denis Basilica by offering visitors the opportunity to attend performances in an exceptional historical setting.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/paris-ile-de-france/festival-de-saint-denis-la-basilique-va-de-nouveau-vibrer-au-rythme-des-grandes-voix-et-des-orchestres-3358084.html)*


### War in Ukraine: 'The Sosnovka Killer,' a Russian serial killer sent to the front lines, is being hunted by authorities after deserting.


War in Ukraine: The Russian serial killer known as the "Sosnovka Strangler" has been sent to the Ukrainian front. He is being sought by authorities after deserting military service. This serial killer, responsible for several murders in the Sosnovka region of Russia, has been deployed in Ukraine for unspecified reasons. Russian authorities have launched an investigation into his disappearance and possible involvement with the opposition. He is suspected of committing crimes against humanity in Ukraine, including the murder of civilians. The Ukrainian army has stated that he is being sought for his criminal activities and that anyone with information about his whereabouts should report it to the authorities.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/international/ukraine/guerre-en-ukraine-letrangleur-de-sosnovka-tueur-en-serie-russe-envoye-sur-le-front-traque-par-les-autorites-apres-sa-desertion-29-05-2026-DHLQ3ELGB5FGJKMF6RPM4HRPIQ.php)*


### PSG-Arsenal: 'No action on the Champs-Élysées' and a 'significant' security presence this Saturday


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/9XuPNxaYhHiFkunM3a6ilTaVf_c/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/05/26/6a1594d037f6d240670234.jpg"
    alt="PSG-Arsenal: 'No action on the Champs-Élysées' and a 'significant' security presence this Saturday"
    caption="PSG-Arsenal : 'Aucune parade sur les Champs-Élysées' et un dispositif de sécurité 'important' ce samedi" %}


The Champions League final between Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) and Arsenal will take place in Paris this Saturday. The Eiffel Tower will illuminate its lights in the colors of PSG for this occasion, as announced by the City of Paris, the club, and the police prefecture. A major security operation will be put in place in Paris and its suburbs. If PSG wins, there will be no parade on the Champs-Élysées, according to the mayor of the 8th arrondissement.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/paris-ile-de-france/paris/psg-arsenal-aucune-parade-sur-les-champs-elysee-et-un-dispositif-de-securite-important-ce-samedi-3357262.html)*


