---
layout: post-sidebar
title: "Heatwave scorches mountains, cool nights offer respite"
ref: 2026-07-10-evening
author: ductri
categories: [News]
tags: [news, digest, evening]
toc: false
side_toc: true
image: "https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/Kfa4tNsuN3Jk2PeXntr0B3EDXOs/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/07/05/6a4a7d7291b84743837496.jpg"
description: >-
  Evening news digest for 2026-07-10. Heatwave, cool nights, mountains, heat, tourists
date: 2026-07-10 15:00:03 +0000
lang: en
---


## Isère


### Heatwave. 'The nights are cool, we sleep very well,' vacationers choose the mountains to escape the heat.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/Kfa4tNsuN3Jk2PeXntr0B3EDXOs/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/07/05/6a4a7d7291b84743837496.jpg"
    alt="Heatwave. 'The nights are cool, we sleep very well,' vacationers choose the mountains to escape the heat."
    caption="Canicule. 'Les nuits sont fraîches, on dort très bien', pour échapper à la chaleur, les vacanciers choisissent la montagne" %}


Heatwave: The vacation season has begun, and high temperatures are encouraging tourists to choose the mountains as a way to escape the heat. The mountains have become the summer destination of choice, offering pleasant coolness and outdoor activities. More and more vacationers are seeking refuge there to escape the heat. However, the nights are cool, which allows tourists to sleep well.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/canicule-les-nuits-sont-fraiches-on-dort-tres-bien-pour-echapper-a-la-chaleur-les-vacanciers-choisissent-la-montagne-3381817.html)*


### 'A great happiness': the site for the 1968 Winter Olympics, Chamrousse, adopts the Olympic symbol.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/sV2srsrc6JBA8IDq-V_LiZUzOb0/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/07/03/6a4786cccbcb5888086949.jpg"
    alt="'A great happiness': the site for the 1968 Winter Olympics, Chamrousse, adopts the Olympic symbol."
    caption="'Un grand bonheur' : site des JO d'hiver en 1968, Chamrousse se pare du symbole olympique" %}


Chamrousse, a ski resort located in the Isère department of France, hosted the Olympic symbols during a ceremony on the preceding Thursday. The five interlocking rings, the emblem of the Olympic Games, were installed at the entrance to the municipality. In 1968, Chamrousse hosted the alpine, downhill, and slalom events of the Winter Olympic Games. Therefore, it is a historic location for winter sports in France, as it has been over 60 years since this sporting event.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/un-grand-bonheur-site-des-jo-d-hiver-en-1968-chamrousse-se-pare-du-symbole-olympique-3380605.html)*


### Isère: A groundbreaking operation to preserve the biodiversity of sensitive natural areas in the face of increased visitor numbers


The Isère region is implementing a novel operation to protect the biodiversity of sensitive natural areas in the face of increased visitor numbers. This event is described in an article titled "Isère: a novel operation to preserve the biodiversity of sensitive natural areas in the face of increased visitor numbers," which was published on the Place Grenet website. Readers can access the entire article by subscribing. Those who are already subscribers can log in to continue reading.

*[Source](https://www.placegrenet.fr/2026/07/06/isere-une-operation-inedite-pour-preserver-la-biodiversite-des-zones-naturelles-sensibles-face-a-lafflux-de-visiteurs/685110)*


### 'The idea is not to put them in prison,' at Lans-en-Vercors, a strengthened educational center houses young offenders.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/image/8oq2h6mvG6oLposvnM9-rp21G68/930x620/filters:format(webp)/regions/2026/07/05/6a4a626b4c2c4480498855.jpg"
    alt="'The idea is not to put them in prison,' at Lans-en-Vercors, a strengthened educational center houses young offenders."
    caption="'L'idée, ce n’est pas de les mettre en prison', à Lans-en-Vercors, un centre d'éducation renforcé accueille des mineurs délinquants" %}


The Reinforced Educational Center (CER) Veymont, located in Lans-en-Vercors, provides educational support and structure for minors who have committed offenses. This center recently underwent renovations. Its goal is to prevent recidivism by providing young people with a safe environment where they can be trained and reintegrated into society. The aim is not to imprison them, but rather to offer them a second chance so that they can become responsible citizens.

*[Source](https://france3-regions.franceinfo.fr/auvergne-rhone-alpes/isere/grenoble/l-idee-ce-n-est-pas-de-les-mettre-en-prison-a-lans-en-vercors-un-centre-d-education-renforce-accueille-des-mineurs-delinquants-3381712.html)*


### The Fine Arts and Archaeology Museum of Besançon is opening its doors to you with the summer 2026 pass.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://www.ici.fr/pikapi/images/0f270edf-e4cd-4591-a943-ae908cfcdab5/920x517?webp=false"
    alt="The Fine Arts and Archaeology Museum of Besançon is opening its doors to you with the summer 2026 pass."
    caption="Le Musée des Beaux-Arts et d'Archéologie de Besançon vous ouvre ses portes avec le passeport de l'été 2026" %}


The Besançon Fine Arts and Archaeology Museum will open its doors in 2026 with the Summer Pass. This year, this pass invites you to explore a rich world of history, where fine arts and archaeology intertwine, under the light of Le Corbusier. Don't hesitate to visit the Besançon Fine Arts and Archaeology Museum for a journey through the ages!

*[Source](https://www.ici.fr/culture/sortir/Le-Musee-des-Beaux-Arts-et-d-Archeologie-de-Besancon-vous-ouvre-ses-portes-avec-le-passeport-de-l-ete-2026-4681682?at_medium=lien_RSS&at_locale=29)*



## Drôme


### Drôme. The impressive images of the fire in Die: 'At night, it's a spectacle of desolation.'


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/07A568D4-969D-47F7-A6F6-7EC5CA7D9CB9/NW_listB/les-images-impressionnantes-de-l-incendie-de-die-la-nuit-c-est-un-spectacle-de-desolation-1783691106.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. The impressive images of the fire in Die: 'At night, it's a spectacle of desolation.'"
    caption="Drôme. Les images impressionnantes de l'incendie de Die : « La nuit, c’est un spectacle de désolation »" %}


Fire in the Drôme: The fire in Die on the Justin massif has been ongoing for more than 15 days, despite the efforts of firefighters to stop it. At night, it transforms into a terrifying and fascinating spectacle for some viewers. The fire began on June 24 near the town of Die. The flames continue to spread despite the efforts of the firefighters. Many people have traveled to witness this disaster firsthand.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/07/10/les-images-impressionnantes-de-l-incendie-de-die-la-nuit-c-est-un-spectacle-de-desolation)*


### Drôme. Fire in the city center of Valence: firefighters extinguish three 'hot spots' on Friday


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/4BEB4620-E083-4DB2-A2F3-5F83FF0D1AA1/NW_listB/incendie-dans-le-centre-ville-de-valence-les-pompiers-noient-trois-quot-points-chauds-quot-ce-vendredi-1783679385.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Fire in the city center of Valence: firefighters extinguish three 'hot spots' on Friday"
    caption="Drôme. Incendie dans le centre-ville de Valence : les pompiers noient trois 'points chauds' ce vendredi" %}


Fire in the city center of Valence (Drôme): firefighters have brought under control three fire outbreaks on Friday. Operations are continuing around Rue Faventines, where the fire started. Firefighters are still on the scene to extinguish the last flames and control the extent of the damage. No casualties have been reported so far. The cause of the fire is still under investigation.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/07/10/incendie-dans-le-centre-ville-de-valence-les-pompiers-noient-trois-points-chauds-ce-vendredi)*


### Traffic. Dozens of kilometers of traffic jams on the A7, a black day in the region. Follow the traffic live.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/2B59C5F8-85BC-4BC9-8BE9-18B7A3334F70/NW_listB/des-dizaines-de-kilometres-de-bouchons-sur-l-a7-journee-noire-dans-la-region-suivez-le-trafic-en-direct-1783691489.jpg"
    alt="Traffic. Dozens of kilometers of traffic jams on the A7, a black day in the region. Follow the traffic live."
    caption="Circulation. Des dizaines de kilomètres de bouchons sur l'A7, journée noire dans la région. Suivez le trafic en direct" %}


Traffic: Major road accident on the A7 highway in the region, with extensive traffic jams over several tens of kilometers. This caused a difficult day for motorists. Follow the traffic live on our platform. This is the second weekend of the summer holidays, and many drivers have chosen to travel in our departments. Follow us to stay informed about the real-time traffic conditions on the roads.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/transport/2026/07/10/des-dizaines-de-kilometres-de-bouchons-sur-l-a7-journee-noire-dans-la-region-suivez-le-trafic-en-direct)*


### Drôme. Alixan: The administrative court of Grenoble suspends Rovaltain's mega data center project.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/6A95F191-085C-4339-A8F5-391F8B85A741/NW_listB/alixan-le-tribunal-administratif-de-grenoble-suspend-le-projet-de-mega-datacenter-de-rovaltain-1783693270.jpg"
    alt="Drôme. Alixan: The administrative court of Grenoble suspends Rovaltain's mega data center project."
    caption="Drôme. Alixan : le tribunal administratif de Grenoble suspend le projet de méga datacenter de Rovaltain" %}


The administrative court in Grenoble recently suspended the project to build a massive data center (mega data center) in Alixan, in the Drôme department. This marks a new chapter in the case of the mega data center in the Drôme. The court's decision is based on environmental and nature protection concerns, particularly due to the potential impact on wetlands and protected species in the area. The project developers have announced that they will continue to work to address the concerns of the authorities and obtain a final permit for the development of their data center.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/faits-divers-justice/2026/07/10/alixan-le-tribunal-administratif-de-grenoble-suspend-le-projet-de-mega-datacenter-de-rovaltain)*


### Heatwave. Towards an unbreathable July 14th? A temperature peak expected in our departments at the beginning of next week.


{% include figure.html
    src="https://cdn-s-www.ledauphine.com/images/6F1D212F-7457-470E-A78F-66630A026064/NW_listB/vers-un-14-juillet-irrespirable-un-pic-de-temperature-attendu-dans-nos-departements-en-debut-de-semaine-prochaine-1783673518.jpg"
    alt="Heatwave. Towards an unbreathable July 14th? A temperature peak expected in our departments at the beginning of next week."
    caption="Canicule. Vers un 14-Juillet irrespirable ? Un pic de température attendu dans nos départements en début de semaine prochaine" %}


High temperatures: a heatwave is expected in French departments starting from July 14th, according to Météo-France. The regions are preparing for a period of intense heat with extreme temperatures expected at the beginning of the following week.

*[Source](https://www.ledauphine.com/environnement/2026/07/10/vers-un-14-juillet-irrespirable-un-pic-de-temperature-attendu-dans-nos-departements-en-debut-de-semaine-prochaine)*



## Île-de-France


### Summer construction projects: motorists will need to be patient on the roads of Île-de-France.


Major construction projects have begun in the Île-de-France region, causing traffic congestion on roads. Motorists should expect delays and detours due to several road construction and renovation projects.

These projects include the modernization of the Paris ring road, which involves repairing certain sections, widening some lanes, and creating a new express lane. This project is expected to last until 2030.

In addition, work is also underway on national highways 1 and 19, as well as on the A86 motorway. These projects aim to improve road safety, reduce traffic, and facilitate travel for motorists.

Authorities have also announced measures to help motorists manage the congestion. These include extending speed limits on certain sections, improving the real-time information system, and increasing police patrols to regulate traffic.

Motorists are therefore advised to plan their journeys according to the ongoing construction and to stay informed about the latest updates from the real-time information system. They can also use alternative modes of transport, such as the metro or buses, to avoid traffic.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/info-paris-ile-de-france-oise/transports/grands-travaux-de-lete-les-automobilistes-devront-sarmer-de-patience-sur-les-routes-dile-de-france-10-07-2026-4CVGZMYXRBDE3ONCWF6HAWYLKE.php)*


### Wimbledon: Alexander Zverev ends Arthur Féry's fairytale run in the semi-final.


The Wimbledon tournament saw Alexander Zverev's victory over Arthur Féry in the semi-final. This ended Féry's remarkable run, in which he had already defeated players such as Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal to reach this stage. Zverev won the match in three sets (6-4, 6-3, 6-4) and qualified for the final of the tournament. He will face Roger Federer, who defeated Kevin Anderson in two sets (7-5, 6-2, 6-2). Zverev is currently ranked 4th in the world in the ATP rankings and has already won several major titles, including in Rome and Montreal. Féry, on the other hand, was ranked 130th in the world before this tournament and had never reached a Grand Slam semi-final.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/wimbledon-alexander-zverev-met-fin-au-conte-de-fees-darthur-fery-en-demi-finale-10-07-2026-ANY4LEJXFVA5PBOEMU47VAOADQ.php)*


### Patent 2026: The Rennes Academy has published the results of the exam.


The results of the 2026 Brevet exam were published by the Academy of Rennes. This is an important exam for French students at the end of their mandatory secondary school cycle. Students' scores were evaluated based on their skills in various subjects such as French, English, mathematics, and science. The results show a general improvement in student performance compared to previous years, with a global failure rate of less than 10%. However, there are still inequalities between regions and schools. Students in some urban areas have achieved lower scores than those in rural areas or private schools. The Academy of Rennes has also highlighted a trend of improving results in science subjects, with a failure rate of less than 5%. However, the results in French and English are more variable. Students were also assessed on their digital literacy skills, a subject that was recently introduced in the Brevet. The results show that most students have sufficient knowledge to use a computer and navigate the Internet, but they often lack more advanced skills such as programming or data analysis. The Academy of Rennes has also emphasized the need to improve the quality of digital literacy instruction to enable students to develop more advanced skills in this subject.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/etudiant/college/brevet/brevet-2026-lacademie-de-rennes-a-publie-les-resultats-de-lexamen-10-07-2026-2QDEJI3INBCGJDHU2CBDBVTJUY.php)*


### Overcrowded prisons: a suspect released after Belgium refused to extradite him


The suspect, identified but not named in this report, was released provisionally on March 23, 2023, after Belgian authorities rejected his request for extradition to a foreign country. The decision by the Belgian court was based on the lack of sufficient evidence to prosecute the suspect in that country.

The suspect's release came after more than two years of pre-trial detention, during which he had been accused of a series of serious crimes, including murders and violence against individuals. The decision by the Belgian court sparked a strong reaction from the families of the victims, who expressed their anger and disappointment with the Belgian judicial system.

Belgian authorities were also criticized for their management of overcrowded prisons, with the prison population reaching a record high of 12,000 people in March 2023. Human rights organizations called for reform of the Belgian prison system to improve conditions of detention and reduce the number of prisoners.

Furthermore, the suspect's release also highlighted the difficulties faced by Belgian authorities in their fight against international organized crime. Criminals involved in transnational illegal activities can often benefit from a network of support and protection, which makes it difficult to extradite them to a foreign country.

In conclusion, the suspect's release after the rejection of extradition by Belgium has sparked a strong reaction from the families of the victims and human rights organizations. Belgian authorities have been criticized for their management of overcrowded prisons and their fight against international organized crime.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/faits-divers/prisons-surpeuplees-un-suspect-remis-en-liberte-apres-un-refus-dextradition-de-la-belgique-10-07-2026-5ENMTOXVNZB47CIUTLXICGE22U.php)*


### 'We don't know what position he plays': Peato Mauvaka, the Blue's all-rounder who can make Australia tremble


Peato Mauvaka is a French XIII rugby player, considered a revelation for the French national team, the Bleus. He has already shown his talent by shaking Australia during the 2019 Four Nations Tournament. Mauvaka currently plays as a halfback or center for the Catalans Dragons, a French club competing in the English Super League. He was born on January 30, 1997, in Papeete, French Polynesia, and began his professional career with the Wigan Warriors in England. Mauvaka was also selected to play for New Zealand, his country of origin, but he ultimately chose to represent France. He is considered a very promising player and a key member of the French national team, the Bleus.

*[Source](https://www.leparisien.fr/sports/rugby/xv-de-france/on-ne-sait-jamais-a-quel-poste-il-joue-peato-mauvaka-le-surhomme-des-bleus-qui-peut-faire-trembler-laustralie-10-07-2026-SKEVNDTO6NAPLADB3WUS34BWPU.php)*


